(Sessizlik) It takes so long to plan out my learning before I actually start studying. Okay, now here's the important thing. Again, I've mentioned this before, is that studying and learning is not the same thing. Studying and learning are not the same thing. So what do I mean by that? Studying is simply what you're doing. And if I read a book, if I write some notes, If I go to class, have I studied? Yes. If I read my notes again and write them out again, have I studied? Yes. Have I done meaningful learning? AKA, am I able to take that knowledge, have it in my head, recall that knowledge, and actually output it and express it fluently? Probably not. So which was the waste of time? You spent all this time doing this, and yet you still haven't actually learned it. It's not in your head, you can't use the knowledge. So this is a difference between calibrating yourself based on studying the pages I've flicked, the words my eyes have seen, the number of words I've written down, meaningless metrics like that, versus calibrating yourself on things that really matter, the things that really matter to you. And what matters to you is that you actually learn it, because you need to actually have it in your brain in order to apply it in your exam. Otherwise, everyone that studies lots would just do well. And if it worked that way, okay, if just doing more of what you've already been doing was the solution, you wouldn't be stressed out, you wouldn't feel so sometimes maybe even desperate or frustrated, you wouldn't feel like you don't know how to improve or break out of that spiral, and you would feel a lot more confident about moving forward. But if you don't, then that's a clear sign that the process you're using just doesn't work. You're focusing too much on the studying rather than the learning. And let me tell you is that the process of going through and finding keywords, and then turning those keywords into questions that allow us to create curiosity that is gonna make our brain a sponge so that when we fill that curiosity, our attention just goes through the roof. That process in itself is learning. We're not planning for learning. The aim step is not planning for learning. The aim step is part of learning itself. It's just the first part of learning. It's kind of like saying that turning on an engine is not part of driving a car. If you don't turn the car on, you are not driving anywhere. It doesn't matter how many hours you spend behind the wheel, holding the transmission, staring left and right, looking at your mirrors. Doesn't matter how long you spend doing that, you're not actually driving unless you've turned the car on. You're not actually learning unless you turn your brain on. So this is the first part of learning. So yes, it takes a long time, especially when it's new, but remember, just like any new skill, you wouldn't expect to be a professional soccer player after only practicing for a few hours. You wouldn't expect to be a professional violinist practicing a few hours. Heck, you wouldn't even expect to be a even moderately socially acceptable level of someone listening to you playing for violin after practicing for a few hours. You probably need to practice for months to get to the level where you think, you know what, I don't sound terrible now. And compared to that, this is much faster. Okay, so does it take a long time to learn relative to other skills? Not particularly. Does it take a long time to start learning relative to mindless studying? Definitely not, because you could study for 20 hours before you actually start learning something the normal way. Does it take a long time to get used to? Again, relative to new skills that you've just learned? Not really. Does it take a long time compared to doing something that is mindless and takes no effort? Yes. But, we don't want to do things mindlessly that take no effort because there's no point. Okay, so that's the first main common objection that students would have to using this and this is a big reason why people would quit is because they're too obsessed and fixed on these meaningless metrics of measuring progress by the classes and the pages and the papers and the words they read and the number of notes they write and they look around and all their friends are writing lots of notes and they're like, "Oh what do I do? I need to write more notes." And it's like, look, do they get perfect scores? Are they geniuses? Because they've written the notes, do you think that they know everything that they've written? No. So are even in a better position than them because if you, who might not have written as many notes and gone as crazy as all of your friends, at least you know that it doesn't work. They don't even know that it doesn't work. You are one step higher than them on Maslow's hierarchy of competence. You have conscious incompetence. You're aware of the fact that you don't have the skill. They're not even aware of the fact that they don't have the skill. Okay, so feel a little bit happier about that. Okay, so that's the first thing. The second point and the second concern that most people have or question is, why do I have to go through all of this effort? Why can't I just use existing past papers? Why do I have to put in the effort to make questions myself when I already have questions that are even in the exam format that I could use? You theoretically You theoretically could, but it's a little bit of a nuanced answer and I generally recommend, especially if you're just learning the skill, that you shouldn't, at least you shouldn't depend on past papers. And there's a couple reasons why, and they're both very important. The first thing is that, I've mentioned this before, but the exam style and the way they ask you questions always changes. You never know the way they're going to ask you questions. So if you're using practice exam papers to help you practice for the exam, if you already knew what was going to be in the exam, why are you not getting 100% for every test? The thing is, you don't know. And that's the point, is that you never know what they're actually going to test you on. So practicing based on past exams is just like an educated guess at the end of the day. The benefit of practice questions and past exams is that you get an idea of how they might test you. And years and years ago, that might have still been a pretty decent, safe strategy. But to be totally honest, more and more so these days, in fact, you can see it on the news sometimes even, students are getting curveball questions, often worth lots of marks that are very different to the ways that they have been assessed previously. And actually I've seen this internationally, so I'm not sure what's driving the change, but I think there's a shift in the way that people are trying to assess, and that they're trying to do more and more curveballs to see who has just memorized all the top layer stuff by doing hundreds of past papers, and who has actually really spent the time to learn it properly. And I think test creators are starting to get smart to that. So assessments are aggressively now changing in the way that they're being styled. So for me, I don't feel that it's safe anymore. 10 years ago, I probably would have said it was much safer, but with what I've witnessed over the last 10 years and what I predict moving forward, I don't believe that that's safe anymore. I do think past papers have a good utility in that they help you generally get a style of how they might ask you questions as a general ballpark, as a very general ballpark. But apart from that, I don't honestly think that they're very useful. And here's another reason how you know that it's not the solution. Because using past papers is a strategy that everyone uses. Literally every single student, sometimes the only thing they do is just go through past papers. Some students, 99% of their learning is just from doing past papers. If past papers was a solution, everyone would do well. It's the strategy that everyone uses. So if everyone uses that strategy and you're trying to be in the top 1%, how are you going to differentiate yourself? So it just doesn't make sense from that point of view either. So it's a common strategy. If it really worked, then you would see everyone do really, really well. That's obviously not the case. So that's one aspect of it, is that yes, it's common and has been safe sometimes in the past, but really it's, I think, a very risky way to depend on. And if I said to you, there's a 20% chance that you're going to get questions that weren't in the past papers, that's a pretty high percentage. I don't know, like, do you feel comfortable putting all of your eggs in that basket and saying, "Oh, I'm not gonna learn this incredibly effective skill because I could rely on that to 80% or so accuracy." And you're trying to get like top 99%? I don't know about that logic there. So the other aspect is that this ability to create questions is actually a skill in itself. So if you just keep relying on past paper questions, you don't actually develop the skill. Your brain, again, is very energy efficient. It tries not to invest in anything that it doesn't need to. So if it knows that there's past paper questions that you're using, it's not gonna develop the skill of creating questions. It's kind of like if you live a really privileged, sheltered life, you've got butlers serving you. Every time you're hungry, you just say, "Food, deliver it to me." Okay, and within 15 seconds, you've got perfect meal in front of you. Every time you need to go to the toilet, you say, "I need to toilet." and then you get swiveled over there, okay? You wouldn't expect someone like that to be independent. You wouldn't expect them to have this huge ability to go out and live out there in the world by themselves, right? 'Cause why would they have developed that skill of independence? Where would they have developed that from? Same thing is that if we have a crutch on past paper questions, if those questions aren't reliable or if they're not as available, and generally speaking, when you get into university, there is a lot less past paper questions less reliable, so you don't even want to be relying on them anyway for most degrees at most universities in the world, you actually don't have that option. And at that point, if you don't have the skill to create your own past paper questions and your own questions, you're really going to struggle in it. You're probably not going to be able to develop the skill fast enough and you just you simply just won't do as well. So that's another big weakness and actually that's the create curiosity in things that even you might think is just really boring subjects. The ability to do that is actually a hallmark feature, as in it's a feature that is characteristic of a high-level learner. In fact, to the point where I'd say that I don't think it's possible to be a high-level learner and certainly the research suggests this as well. I don't think it's possible to be a highly efficient learner if you don't have the ability to create curiosity, okay, and create and find curiosity. That is a skill in itself that you need to develop. And it honestly doesn't even take that long to develop it. It's just so worth it. And then the final aspect is because the questions that you cover in a past paper, if you already know the answer to the question, you're not getting more learning out of it, right? Like I said, if I ask you a question and you know the answer already, you get a little bit of benefit and that you're kind of just like reinforcing what you already knew, but you're learning the most in terms of the time you're spending. You're learning the most when you find a question that you don't already know the answer to. So you're kind of doing past paper questions in order to number one, make sure that you know what you know, but the most important thing is to find the things you don't know, right? Like if you studied for like two hours and you had a big test coming up and you did some past papers and you're like, I got everything right. You should be a little bit suspicious. You should be like, "Hmm, I only studied for two hours. How is it that I got everything right?" Because you want to find gaps, right? You don't want to just be like, "Oh, therefore I must know everything." Because that's like probably unlikely. So you actually want to be in a position where you're finding gaps and weaknesses. And the thing is that our brain has a sensor, like a radar, for gaps in knowledge and weaknesses and weak points, things that you don't know as strongly. And that radar is actually our sense of curiosity. Okay? So the aim step, which is to create and find curiosity, is actually us tapping into our internal radar for where the gaps in our knowledge are. So it means that because we're deliberately creating questions and problems that we genuinely don't know the answer to, especially ones that are highly connected. It means that creating one question actually ends up making us revise multiple different points simultaneously because we're trying to make them connected. And because they're questions that we genuinely don't know the answer to, by nature, the questions we create are actually our weak points and our gaps and our limitations. Which means that if we spend one hour answering the questions that we have made, that entire hour is spent purely on being better at our weakest points. If you spend one hour just doing practice, papers and questions, you potentially would only encounter one or two gaps. And they may just be isolated gaps. They may not even connect to other things. So you might have a gap here and then a gap all around this and you just would miss it completely if the question didn't ask it in that way. So it's very different. So it's much safer and it's actually much more time efficient to go looking for the gap yourself and then study everything around it because it's just a more efficient use of time but also because it trains your brain to be able to find these gaps. The downside of that, and it's a very small downside, is that sometimes you find a gap that's not really relevant for your course. So if you're studying like chemistry and you've got a certain type of reaction and the thing you're curious about is how do I use this reaction to diffuse a bomb, then it's like, okay, it's great that you're curious about that, but that's probably not gonna be assessed at all. So, you know, if you were to then go pursuing that, you know, it might not be a great use of your time. But the reason that's not a very big downside is, number one, we generally have an idea about what is and is not assessed. So we can, if we're way off, we can just kind of be like, "Uh, maybe that's not a great question." And we can bring ourselves back. That's the first reason, is that we kind of have common sense. And the second thing is that, it's actually good to go a little bit outside the scope of what's purely in your curriculum, because it actually helps you learn the things that are in scope a lot more. It's kind of like, if you know, if you need to know this much, if you know a little bit more, then the inside curriculum stuff just becomes that much easier. And if you sort of think about when you're making connections, you've got a connection here, and that connects to this thing. Okay, great, you've made a connection. Okay, and you've got a new piece of information, like a fact or a concept that comes in, and you're gonna connect it from this, from here, okay? The more connections you can make, the better, right? So you wanna connect it from this way, and you wanna say, "Oh, it relates to this thing as well. And oh, I remember last week's topic, we learned about this. Oh, that's also related to this." But when we get to the fringes of knowledge, the stuff that's like the most difficult or the most specific, and by only staying in scope, we limit the direction at which we can approach it. So we might only be able to make one or two connections. But if we let ourselves go out of scope a little bit, we can actually say, oh, we can actually connect it from this way. So we actually find more ways to connect it. And the time it would take to go a little bit outside of scope of curriculum, a little bit like 10% outside the scope of your curriculum, the time it takes to go out of scope is actually less than the time it would take for you to just relearn it because you're forgetting it because when you go out of scope you can actually make more connections that way and so you learn it better and so your retention goes up and so your efficiency goes up right and so you're not forgetting it you're not wasting time relearning it. The time it would take to relearn that if you were to forget it because you didn't have enough connections because you stayed in your scope that time is actually longer so it's it's actually better to go a little bit out of scope in order to learn the material more strongly. It's actually faster, it's actually faster. That's counterintuitive. So I really dislike it when teachers, when you ask a teacher a question, the teacher says, "Oh, that's not examinable." Don't worry about that, because I think teachers are a very strict kind of cutoff. Some teachers do at least. But actually, and the research is consistent with this as well, it's actually better to go a little bit out of scope to learn the material, as long as you're not going way out of scope. And again, how do you know if it's way out of scope or kind of in scope? It doesn't actually matter so much. You just have to keep track of how much time you're spending outside of that scope. If you're spending one hour outside of scope just to consolidate one point, that's probably not a good use of time. If you're spending five, 10 minutes learning about something that's not examinable, that allows you to learn this, then yeah, that's probably worth the time, okay? So again, we've got common sense. We can actually use this, okay, to our advantage. So it's a small downside, but ultimately definitely well worth it. So those are two of the really common reasons why people wouldn't use this. But actually, neither of those reasons actually makes any sense, especially if you're trying to get more study done and get higher grades in a shorter period of time. Not doing it because of those reasons is exactly the reverse. It would actually make things much worse. So two really common issues and also the reasons that it's completely illogical. (Ortam sesi)