So by now we've got a pretty good understanding of the first step towards more efficient studying and that is the aim step, the ability, the skill to create curiosity which is so so important for basically every single effective studying technique out there. It all comes back to this foundation. Obviously, there's no point in learning any of that if we're not even able to concentrate for long enough to even use these skills, if we're not able to just focus and not get distracted after the first 15 or 20 minutes. So let's take a little bit of a deeper and talk about how we can improve our focus and remove distraction. So the topic we're talking about is distractions and distractibility. And there's a little bit in terms of the anatomy of a distraction that I want to focus on here first before I tell you the components that we can actually do something about and improve on. So distractions are a important thing to reduce, obviously, but are really formed from a two-step process. Okay, so what we need to do as a student who's being distracted is we need to enter into a state of focus. And when I say a state of focus, I'm talking about a state where the distractions don't really bother you anymore. And we're talking about a state where you are able to really just zone into your work and just completely connect, okay? We're talking about a state of flow, sometimes people will call it. So that's what I mean when I say that we wanna enter into a state of focus. And you know that feeling when you're really, really into it and you're able to get a lot of work done and you're very productive. We want to be able to create and enter into that state. So that's actually part one. And then we want to stay in that state for as long as possible, which is part two, aka maintaining focus. And there are a few beginner techniques that we can do that I think it's important for you to get familiar with. And then as usual, we will build on this even more in the later courses, okay? So we'll go over what we can do with those beginner techniques soon. But I want to explain why it's so important that we maintain this focus at all costs. And this is actually the most important part. So between entering into focus and maintaining focus, maintaining focus is actually more important, primarily because of the fact that most people find it reasonably okay to actually enter into focus as long as the environment is set up to do so. And the issue is actually not in terms of entering into the focus, it tends to be that after the focus is entered into, we're easily broken out of it. And there are also a lot of misconceptions around maintaining focus as well, which we need to really correct. So in my experience, although this seems like it will be the one that is the most important, and yeah, it's a prerequisite, you can't maintain focus if you never entered into the first place, but for most students, I'd say around sort of 70% of the students that I work with, the real issue that cuts the productivity the most is actually being able to maintain that focus for a longer period of time. So the thing that I wanna point out is this concept of what's called a cognitive switching penalty. So a cognitive switching penalty is a, how should we call it? It's a sort of psychological phenomenon. It's just one of those things that actually happens as a result of multitasking. Okay, so multitasking is, if we've got a brain here, okay? Multitasking is when we're trying to focus on multiple things at the same time. Now, it's not possible to really focus on multiple things at the same time. So if, for example, you're like reading something and then you're like reading another different page, you can't really read both pages at the same time. And not like a normal human can't do that. For example, you can't really focus on speaking French while at the same time playing the piano or something. It's not actually possible to do what we sort of think of as like pure multitasking, where the brain is doing literally more than one thing and focusing on both of them at the same time, what we end up doing in reality is what seems like multitasking, but what we're actually doing is just rapid switching. So rapid switching is when we are focusing on one thing and then we rapidly change our focus to another thing and then rapidly change our focus to another thing. So we, it seems like we're multitasking, but what we're actually doing is just rapidly changing our focus. So for example, that's why you can like, I don't know, like baking something, okay, which might require a certain element of focus at a certain point, but then also at the same time have a conversation, which also requires focus. But if you're really concentrating on something with your baking, it's hard to have also an engaging conversation at the same time. And what we end up doing is we just switch back and forth. But when one thing requires more focus, the other things reduce in focus. And that's just the way that our brain works. So back in the day, back I think maybe 40, 50 years ago, the science at the time theorized that the human brain is capable of focusing on anywhere between 10 to 13 tasks simultaneously, even including rapid switching, actually. So even including not pure multitasking, even just rapid switching, we thought we were able to do 10 to 13 tasks with minimal reduction in our efficacy and that the quality of our work would be still pretty high. Modern research on this actually shows that this is completely not the case. So what we know now pretty definitively is that actually the human brain is only capable of focusing on around two or three things at any given time and that's including switching. And as I said, pure multitasking doesn't really exist. That's just nothing that our brain is really capable of. But when we're talking about rapid switching, that gives the illusion that we're multitasking. We used to think that we could do 10 to 13 things and just switch between them very, very quickly and still maintain decent efficiency. But what we've found is that we can only really manage and switch between two or three things at any given time. And actually, the quality of what we're doing reduces after one. Okay, so what that really means is our brain is a machine of focus and it operates the most when there is only really one thing to focus on, although we can stretch it to two or three, but if you're stretching it to two or three, there is a reduction in the level of quality of the work. And when it comes to something like studying, we really don't want to be reducing the quality of our work because again that just means that we're spending time on studying but that also means that we would have a reduction in the actual learning that the studying produces. So if we are getting a reduction in quality in our studying, what that really means is that the learning that we get for the time that we put in is lower. So we spend one hour studying, if it's high quality, then we're getting the full hours worth of learning. If the quality of studying is low, and it drops by 20%, that means that the amount of learning that we get, aka the knowledge we retain and apply, has also reduced by 10 or 20%. So we obviously don't want that, right? We want high retention as early as possible. We want this learning quality to be high. We do not wanna be reducing the quality of our study. So we don't really want to be doing this rapid switching and reducing our focus. Now, what's the cognitive switching penalty? So the switching is referring to this process here, rapid switching, switching from one task to another task to another task, focusing on multiple things at once. Every time we switch our focus from one thing to another thing, what we have found is that there is this thing called the cognitive switching penalty that occurs every time we switch. So what the cognitive switching penalty actually is, is our brain trying to effectively load the task again. Okay, load the task again, like a computer loading something. So have you ever been to like a web page and the first time you load the web page, it takes a really long time to load it. But then if you refresh the page, it loads, you know, instantly, it's much, much faster. And that's because what your computer has done is that it's downloaded all of this and it's saved it onto your computer. So when you're refreshing it, it actually just pulls it from your computer again. So it's much faster. It's not downloading the whole thing all over again. And actually this is called a cache or a cache. And so you may have seen this on your computer, clear your browser cache. that's basically saying, you know, your computer has downloaded a bunch of stuff, you know, you can clear it and save some space. It turns out that your brain works quite similarly in that when you're focusing on a task, it kind of engages itself in a way where it gets better and better at doing that task. And so your efficiency goes up. Now, when you break out of that task to switch to another task, Your brain now needs to start loading up this new task. And so it takes a while for it to start getting more and more efficient at it. Okay? And when you return to the previous task, you don't carry off from where you left off. You actually need to build this again from scratch. So you have to do this process again. Okay? So the idea is that when you focus on a task, As you focus, okay, as time goes on, as you focus, your brain is getting more and more efficient at doing it. It's entering into a flow state and it's faster. Every time you break this, your brain needs to reload that task and then you have to start building this efficiency all over again. So if you never really let it get to this point where the slope is a little bit faster, the efficiency is a bit higher, and you're always breaking the task off, you know, like here or here, then you're basically always working within a low level of efficiency. So everything takes you a lot longer and it's harder to focus and it's easier to get distracted as well. So cognitive switching penalty is actually quite a big thing and it's best to avoid it at all costs. So you really do not want to switch out of things. The reason this is important because every time you get distracted, So let's say you're studying, studying, studying, and then you get a phone notification. Okay, your phone goes off, and you check your phone, and you spend the next two minutes scrolling through Facebook or Instagram or answering messages and stuff. Okay, two minutes, two minutes, two minutes of study. Okay, so let's say that you were studying for 20 minutes, and you spent two minutes getting distracted. Normally people would say that's pretty good. Okay, and in terms of time, it is pretty good, right? you spent only two out of 20 minutes being distracted, which is 10%, which is actually, honestly, that's, to be honest, that's probably pretty high, 10% of all your time being distracted. But two minutes is not a big deal. But actually, that two minutes does more harm than just the two minutes, because this is the two minutes that you spent checking your phone. However, it might take you another 10 minutes to get back into your flow and concentration. So even though you spent 20 minutes studying, then two minutes of being distracted, and then let's say another 20 minutes of studying, for example, in reality, what that would have been is you in the first half here, you're building up that efficiency. So you really only got, let's say, a 60% level of efficiency for that first 10 minutes. and then you're at, let's say, 99% efficiency for the remaining 10 minutes, 'cause you were in flow. You break out of that, you have to do that again. So now that's 60%, and then 99%, so 10, and then 10, which means that of the 40 minutes that you spent studying, 20 of those minutes were only spent at an average of 60% efficiency, which means that if you really look at how efficient you were with the use of your time, It really drags it down by a lot. And that was just from this two minute break. Okay, if it was a two second break, probably would have made a big difference. Probably not enough time for your brain to actually let go of it. But as soon as you give your brain time to let go of a task, break out of flow, and then get into another task, which two minutes honestly is more than enough time for, then you then need to spend another period of time building up that efficiency again. So cognitive switching penalty is basically that phenomenon where every time you switch, you suffer a consequence of it. So we wanna reduce it as much as possible, which means we want to, number one, stop ourselves from getting distracted, and number two, never try to actually multitask. So highly efficient people, despite whatever weird myth this has come from, highly efficient people do not multitask. Highly efficient people are able to focus on a single activity deeply for a prolonged time. And this is the formula for having high levels of focus. You want to be able to create focus for a single task for a prolonged period of time deeply. That is the foundation of focus. Never forget that. The foundation of focus is dictated by your ability to focus deeply for a duration of time on a single activity. And that's what I'm going to leave you with before we move on to the very simple techniques that we can actually use to increase our efficiency and focus.