So let's look at the actual techniques we can use to increase our focus and remove the distraction. So there's four letters you can see that have been pre filled out here. Again these are just the basics. They're just the basics. They're not going to be the full, full system. What you're gonna see is that when I introduce later techniques, they will build on these basics. So you need to be really good at this to begin with. The first thing that you should do is what I call intention setting. So intention setting is actually a very simple technique that you can use whereby before every focus session or something, you're simply setting your intentions. So let's say that your focus block is, you know, 20 minutes. You've got a 20-minute block where you're going to focus for. Okay, or a 30-minute block or a one-hour block. It doesn't really matter. Okay, you're setting a certain amount of time and I will go into rest and work timing. How long should you work for? How long should you rest for? All of that. I'm gonna go into that. Okay, but it's not as important. It's not as important as the stuff that I'm going to be talking about right now. Okay, so stuff like Pomodoro technique, blah blah blah, all of that sort of stuff, it's not as important as doing these basics. Pomodoro technique is honestly a little bit overrated. So intention setting means that before each block of focus or study, you are just saying by the end of this block, I will have achieved something. And you're just making it clear and explicit what you will have achieved. And intention setting is a technique because it has to actually be a conscious process. And I would actually say you want to write it down. Okay? And it might seem like, I don't know, childish to write down your goals for study or whatever it is. But it really works. Okay? So who cares if it's childish? Do what works. Do you care about seeming childish or do you care about succeeding at life? Okay, I know which one I would rather. So write down your goals and when you write down your goals, you want to make sure that they are very specific and achievable You may have heard of smart goals before SMART smart goals. It's very well known way of goal-setting as a basic framework It's you know, it's pretty good for setting goals and I'll make a note of that underneath this video just for your reference I'm not gonna dive into that in full depth because even though it is, you know, fairly useful especially for beginners It's not fully relevant for this the most important parts for this particular technique. Is that your Intentions and goals are specific and achievable. So don't just say in the next hour I'm going to study biology because that's that's not at all very specific You don't want to just say study biology or study maths or do English you want to say by the end of the next hour I will have finished my AIM step for the Biology Chapter 23 and have started on the CHUTE step, okay, and we'll talk about the CHUTE step later. I will have revised and done three practice papers within the next one and a half hours. Something that feels achievable for you and something that is very specific so you know exactly whether you failed or not, okay, that's the main thing. You need to make sure that you know, did you fail or did you succeed? That has to be very clear. And the reason is because, like I've said before, your brain operates the best when it has a very single direction to think about, singularly focused. And so something like do biology may seem singularly focused, but that's really vague, actually. Study biology. It's very vague. So you want to give yourself very, very specific intentions so your brain doesn't actually have to think about what to do. All it has to worry about is singularly worry about doing it. You don't ever want your brain while you're actually working to think about what is it that I'm meant to be doing right now. You do not want your brain to ever think that. You want to know exactly what you're doing so that any given time throughout your focus, you're able to just refer back to the intention that you had. And this is not only gonna help you enter into focus in the first place, this is also gonna help you actually maintain your focus as well, okay? So I'm gonna just copy that down here, just so that you know. Intention setting, being able to refer back to these very specific goals, is helpful not only to enter into focus to begin with, but also to maintain that focus throughout it. So write them down, make sure they're specific, make sure that they are giving your brain a very, very clear focus about what it's meant to do. This is what you will focus on for the next 20 minutes, super, super specifically. And, you know, don't like overload yourself. Don't say in the next hour I'm going to study my entire year's worth of chemistry. It's just not possible. So be realistic. The next thing that we want to do is we actually want to do something which is called ritualization. I'm not talking about getting a sage stick and burning that over your head before you study. Ritualization is a process through which you create a certain, it doesn't even matter what it is, but certain steps or a certain routine that you do before every time you focus. And so the brain does this very interesting thing in which if you do certain steps, so let's say just Let's say that the steps are that you, number one, okay, sit down, you take three deep breaths, you pick up your pen, and then you tap it two times on your desk before you study. Now, you'll be thinking, "Justin, what in the heck are you talking about? you're gonna look like a mentally unstable person before every time you sit down to study, you're just like, and then you tap the pen. So it seems very weird, but the brain, like I said, is really good at creating patterns. And so what it will do is actually, if you create this routine, every single time you study, and then you enter into a state of focus, your brain will actually start activating a deeper level of focus every time you do this. Okay, it's really like a magic trick. It's just one of those things in psychology that we have discovered about the way that our brain works. You know, it's almost like a bug or a loophole or an exploitation that we are able to use for our advantage. So for whatever reason it is, our brain just does this thing. If you have a certain routine before you study or actually do any task, if you do it again and again and again, you will actually start activating that method of thinking purely by doing the routine. So you actually see this a lot, most commonly with professional athletes. So if you ever watch someone, like a professional basketball player, just before they're about to do a free throw, you'll often see what they do is they sort of stand there and then they bounce the ball. And you'll see that they bounce the ball, you know, different players bounce the ball differently or if you watch tennis, they bounce the ball or like throw the ball or do a certain spin with their racket. And it's the same exact movement, the same number of bounces with the same hand every single time. And this is actually them doing their ritual because by doing that, it actually increases of them landing that throw or hitting it properly or hitting the serve well when they actually do it. So this is something that's well known in sports. By having a very consistent, what's called a consistent setup, it means that there's almost like a mentally very solid platform to then execute off of. It's a weird psychological phenomenon and it actually works with studying as well. So the idea of creating rituals or free routines before doing certain activities, like golfers will do this with their swings, basketball players with their free throws, tennis players with their serves. Basically in every sport at a competitive level, every athlete has something of a ritual. And in fact, if you're an athlete yourself, you already know what this feels like. And the cool thing is that it's not limited to just sports. You can actually do routines and rituals for entering into focus. So I know a lot of very top students, what they'll do is before every exam, they have a certain routine. I had my own routine. In fact, I had a very specific song that I listened to only before exams and listening to the song, even actually to this day, that's how hard the routine was embedded into me. To this day, when I listen to that very specific song, I will feel as if I'm about to sit an exam. I feel my focus just puddling in. So I had a Muslim friend who prayed before every single exam, and that was part of his routine and ritual, and that is what helped him just develop that focus. I had another friend, very intelligent guy, very, very smart guy. What he used to do is he used to always shower and then take a 20-minute nap. Always, always shower, then take a 20-minute nap before every single exam. And well, needless to say, he crushed his exams. So everyone has their own little routine. It can be small, it can be big. Mine was relatively small. Some people have relatively big routines. Meditating before exams actually is a very common and effective strategy. In fact, there's even research on that to show that it's a very effective routine because it just focuses in your mind. So creating these rituals, and again, it doesn't really matter what the ritual is per se, but it's just something that you think you'll be able to do consistently pretty easily every single time you focus and study. So for me, the ritual that I used to use was a particular breathing exercise. I'm actually gonna teach you the breathing exercise as well 'cause I normally teach all my students and they find it pretty effective. The third thing is to create focus zones. Now a focus zone is an environment which is protected. And I actually have talked about this before the just basic quick tips to increase your focus and remove procrastination is you really want to be very cognizant of what are the distractions. So in this case you know you've got a phone here. You want to be removing this phone. You want to create a zone of focus where you know you might be getting distracted by things but you want to just kind of cut off as many of these as possible. So you create a isolated zone of focus where there are just no distractions. So feel free to go to extremes to remove distractions in your environment. Because remember, every single distraction that enters into your zone has a potential to make you activate a cognitive switching penalty, which is going to have pretty detrimental effects to your overall productivity. Okay, this is relatively straightforward. A lot of students don't take this very seriously. Mature students, advanced learners, high-level learners, realize how big of an impact this makes and they will go to lengths to remove distractions. Often learners who have been studying, for example, law students, later year engineering students, medical students, doctors and lawyers, people that have studied for 10 plus years and really know how to study to a high level, they will really go to extremes to make sure that their zone of focus is optimized because they just realize that it's almost-- there's no point trying to focus when the zone is not there. I mean, it just makes a huge difference. And to supplement that zone is something that you should already be using, the distractions cheat sheet, right? These are the distractions that you didn't remove in your zone that will affect you, and you get distracted by them during your study, and you write them down as you go to say, these are the distractions that I need to make sure that I remove from my zone next time I study, which means that every single time you study and focus, your ability to create this zone of focus gets better and better over time. So these are the basic strategies. Some of them will be familiar already. Some of them you might already be doing. Some of them you may have heard of, like the ritualization, you may have heard of this before because it's pretty well known, a lot of research behind that. But, you know, obviously you can't study if you're not able to even focus to begin with. And these are some of the basics, basic foundations behind developing good focus removing distractions that are a minimum foundation that any high level learner, or any productive individual will be putting in place. Okay, as a basic minimum and then once you're able to do these I can teach you some more advanced foundations and more advanced techniques later on that are going to be again even more effective and build on these foundations.