(Güven important details and the arbitrary details. The reason is because we want to make sure that we're learning the right thing the right way, and conceptual and logical understanding is much better to rely on things like the mind map or the grind map. Now, your important details are actually going to be on your mind maps and your grind maps anyway. Okay, so these will already be on your mind maps your grind maps after your skin step. The reason that we're putting them on our flashcards is because we just want to make sure, we want to be double certain that we're not going to forget it. So we put them on our flashcard just in case. Whereas for the arbitrary details, the flashcards are one of the only ways that you're going to actually memorize them. So we definitely need it there, if it's going to be something that's examinable. But the important details, we're actually doubling up. They're both on our mind maps and our grind maps, but they're also on our flashcards just in case. The third guideline is that we want to make sure that there is a minimum amount of flashcards as possible. So remember, the volume of flashcards does not scale. One flashcard creates three times to five times the actual number of revision that's required. So we want to be very conservative with the number of flashcards that we're creating. And I generally say if you're looking at an entire topic, like an entire area of study, or like a big topic that you're covering in class for like multiple weeks, you really shouldn't have more than 50 flashcards for that entire topic. And if you've got more than 50, it might mean that there's an error or a mistake in the way that you are learning it conceptually, because there just shouldn't be this much for just a single topic. But if you're doing it wrong, you definitely know you're doing it wrong because if you get 50, you're more likely to have like 200. So we don't want that. The fourth guideline is that you wanna make sure that each flashcard tests you on single discrete facts, and we don't wanna be testing multiple facts on a single flashcard. At least not more than maximum two or three. And the reason is because if you've got a single flashcard and it has like a fill in the blanks thing, and it's like blah, blah, blah, fill in this blank, blah, blah, blah, fill in this blank, blah, blah, blah, fill in this blank there are five things on this flashcard. So if you were to get four out of five correct, and you get one of the five incorrect, do you mark this flashcard as right, or do you mark this flashcard as wrong? Because if you mark this flashcard as right, then you're underestimating the fact that you don't actually know this particular fact that you need to be able to recall. Whereas if you mark it wrong, then it's a waste of time, because then you're going to have to cover these same four ones over and over and over again, and you may still consistently get this one wrong, which is why you want to make sure that you are only having the flashcards testing you on two or three, or ideally one fact at a time, so that you know exactly what you're getting right, and you know exactly what you're getting wrong. Now, we can actually make this a little bit easier for ourselves by making sure that instead of just having fill in the blanks, we can use a combination of fill in the blanks, as well as simple questions. So often what I'll see with people that use flashcards for the first time is that they'll have a flashcard where they just have kind of key words, comma separated. So it's like word and then, you know, A and then B. And then on the answer to that is like another series of words. So that's fine if you know exactly what you wanted from this front one. But the issue is that when you start making more and more flashcards, you're gonna be confused at what you were actually looking for. And then the flashcard is just gonna literally look like a bunch of words on a card, and you're not gonna know what you're meant to think about. You wanna turn it into a question so that when you recall it, you have the ability to read the question and directly recall what you needed from that question. So instead of saying membrane protein, you wanna actually say, what is the membrane protein that is involved in a certain type of cell junction? For example, you wanna have a very specific question in mind and then ask that on the flashcard. And that also helps with your recall as well. Now, there's some other things that we can do to actually manage the number of flashcards that we have. And so this is simply called flashcard management. And what this does is it allows us to cull the volume of flashcards, so we don't have flashcards that just pile up. And in fact, we can actually remove some flashcards or stop ourselves from needing to repeat it again and again. There's really two instances in which you don't actually need to keep the flashcard on there, or we can really save some time. The first instance is something where you put a fact onto a flashcard, and it's fair for it to be on the flashcard to begin with. But after revising a few times, you're very, very confident on it, and you're just never getting it wrong. This is often stuff that's like basic details that when you first learn the topic, it's very new, so you might have it on your flashcard because of the fact that it's new. But by the time you're finished studying the topic, this stuff is already so basic that there's no chance you're ever gonna forget it. In which case there's actually no point having it on your flashcard because you already know you're not gonna forget it. It's kind of like having a definition for a cell but then you do an entire subject based on the cell. You're never gonna forget what the cell is because you've just had it hammered into you every single time you've studied it for the last few weeks. So in this case we can actually take the flashcard out. So the The rule that we use here is the rule of three. What the rule of three is, is that once you add the flash card into your flash card deck, if the first three attempts are correct, from true recall, you're not referring to your text or your book or your notes or anything, just true blind recall, if the first three attempts at trying to answer this correct, you can feel free to be safe to actually remove it. The second instance is kind of the opposite. It's a fact that you put into your flashcard. Again, it's fair for it to be in your flashcard, but you're consistently getting it wrong. Or you get it right, and then the next time you get it right, and then you get it wrong again once the gap has been too long. So these are the facts that are usually the ones that for whatever reason our brain just cannot get and and cannot retain. And this is an example of something that if you were to get it wrong, you're probably likely to just keep getting it wrong which means that you're going to have to spend more and more time to do it again and again and again. Now it's not a problem when you only have a few flashcards, but when you're constantly adding more flashcards to your deck, you actually want to make sure that you're cutting out these number of revisions because if you have 10 of these per deck, and you've got 5 decks that you need to do, Then you're actually adding on top 50 flashcards that you need to revise every single day. And they're the same ones that you're constantly getting wrong. And then you get very frustrated and angry because you're not able to do them. So what do you do here? Actually, it's the same rule of three, but a little bit different. This one says that once you've added a flashcard, if you get this flashcard incorrect at least three out of five attempts, What you want to do is go back into the material or the text, or usually even better is just Google it. And you want to do a very deep reconnection. What that means is that you learn way out of scope. So we're taking a fact that initially seemed really random. We were like, why do we need to know this? It doesn't make sense. Like it doesn't help me understand the concept at all. It just seems super random, right? So that's something that might be like layer four, okay? Layer four. Stuff that just doesn't seem to help us understand the concepts. What we wanna do is we wanna take that layer four fact and we wanna force it into something that's a layer three fact by learning more concepts to connect it to. So for example, if we really struggle to remember a particular equation or maybe a particular quote or a particular date or maybe the value for a specific constant we need to use or the name of an enzyme, or maybe a specific word in a language that we're learning, and we just for whatever reason are getting it wrong three out of five attempts, then we can be safe to say, and I've experimented with this quite a lot, and I'm pretty confident to say this, that the time it would actually take for you to literally learn unnecessary, out of scope concepts just so that this can make sense for you don't just keep getting it wrong. It's actually shorter than the amount of time it would take for you to just consistently keep doing this flashcard again and again and again and again and keep getting it wrong. Because what I found is something that you get wrong in three out of five attempts, you are likely to continue getting this wrong for 10, 20 attempts and it's just one of those things that just doesn't stick. And you probably will need to do this another five, six times for it to start sticking. So it's actually not worth it. Once you hit it three times wrong out of five attempts, then simply go back, read about it more, learn about it more, and find a way to make sense of it. So if it's a foreign word, you might want to go into it in a lot of depth and figure out, okay, what is the etymology? What is the root of this word? And what are all the English words that it's connected to? What are all the other words that are similar to it, but, you know, different to it? What are all the different use cases of this? Well, you want to be an expert at this word. And that might take you five or 10 minutes for that particular fact, which is honestly a long time for a single fact, but compared to how long you'd spend by getting it wrong consistently, it's actually much easier, and you're much less likely to forget that in the future. If it's an enzyme, you might wanna do the same thing. Why is it called that enzyme? Why is that the name of it? What other use cases is there for this enzyme? In what other situations is it used? What does it look like? Even look at the molecular formula. Again, you just want to go out of scope. You don't want to care about what's examined or assessed anymore. The point is we're just learning such an unnecessary amount about this that there's no possible way that we can forget this anymore. We want to make this random thing make sense. And if that means going on Wikipedia to read a formula for the derivation of an equation that you're never going to need to know or never going to need to reproduce, that's okay. Because that will probably only take five or 10 minutes, which overall actually saves you time the bane of flashcards is managing the volume. So this is flashcard management using the rule of three. We can use that for facts that are too easy, we can use that for facts that are too hard in order to cull the total volume. Збері 😲