So one of the most common techniques that you're probably already aware of to aid in memorization is the flashcard. And most people use flashcards the wrong way and there's definitely a wrong way to use them. I've sort of mentioned it before and I've mentioned the right way of using flashcards multiple times as well as I've said that I'll teach you later, well now is later. I'm gonna teach you the right way to use flashcards, ways that are sustainable, that are actually effective. and that leverage the biggest benefit of flashcards that most people are not even using. It's kind of ridiculous. There's a technique that can be extremely effective when used the right way, yet most people are using it so incorrectly that it's not using any of the benefits and advantages that flashcards have to offer. So let's have a look at what the correct flashcard technique actually is. (soft music) - So first of all, what are flashcards? Flashcards are just cards that have usually a front side, that would score side one, and a backside, which we'll call side two. And on the front side, there is normally a question, and then on the backside, there is the answer to it. Very straightforward. Now, flashcards are not just having summarized information on a card. Okay, so having summarized information on a card. These are not flashcards, these are summary cards, which some people incorrectly call as being flashcards, but they're not actually the same thing, or at least not in the conventional definition of the word. So what I'm talking about are these flashcards here, not summary cards. The conventional, original flashcard is done on actual paper. So you'd have a stack of paper, a deck of flashcards, where you've got all the questions on one side, and the answers on the other side. However, in modern times, most people use flashcards using apps. Apps such as Anki or Quizlet, these are very common flashcard apps that you can use. And because it's an app and the card is digital, you often have more than two sides as well. So you've got the option in some of these apps of having one side with maybe a question, another side that has an image, and another side that has some kind of maybe audio file even in some cases or a video, and then an answer on the other side. So you can actually have multiple sides to a single card, which it can sort of shuffle through. So it might feed you the image and you need to then think of, okay, what's the answer to that one, or what's the audio and then, you know, match that to the answer or the question and the answer. So there's a lot more flexibility that you can have. Having said that, these additional functions and features, like these additional size of the card, they're not really the main important thing. So here are some of the ways that students usually use flashcards. That doesn't make sense. First of all, they write down everything from their notes. So like, these are all the notes that they're writing, and you can see, based on the way that the notes look like, these are bad notes 'cause they are not visual, they don't reflect anything, they don't have any order control, they're not spatial or relational. So we know that these are not good notes. Well, you know, people that use flashcards this way usually don't have good notes either. So they will take all of these notes and they'll chuck them onto flashcards and they'll end up with hundreds of flashcards, if not even thousands of flashcards. But the thing is with flashcards is that flashcards require something called spaced repetition. And spaced repetition is the idea of doing something one time and then waiting a while and then revising it again another time and then revising week later or a month later or something like that. I've mentioned this before. That's what spaced repetition is. Now, actually, the more effective version of spaced repetition, well, the research is not super conclusive on this quite yet, but it seems to suggest that rather than just normal spaced repetition, expanding gap spaced repetition is actually more effective, which means that the time that you wait between the first and second delay is shorter than the time that you'll wait between the second and third delay, which is shorter than the third and fourth and shorter than the fourth and fifth. So the gap between each revision expands. That's the expanding gap part of the spaced repetition. So you might revise something on day one. So if this is day zero, then this might be one day later. This might be two days later. This might be one week later. And this might be one month later. and then you might have another one two months later, for example. And that means that in order to understand something, and I've covered this before, but I'm gonna reiterate it because it is very important. A single flashcard needs to be revised multiple times in order for it to be retained. So remember, even though we're just rote learning now, even though this is just rote learning and memorizing that layer for just those arbitrary details that don't seem to help you understand the concepts at all, Even though we're just rote learning, we still need to be able to actually retain it at the end of the day. We still need a higher retention, and we still need to be able to apply this knowledge. Right? Otherwise, we're not even going to be able to use it in anything. Certainly not in exams. So in order for us to make sure that we're still learning it and retaining it, just having it on a flashcard is obviously not enough. Just because you've made a flashcard doesn't mean you've learned it. Just like how writing notes doesn't mean you've learned it. Therefore, we need to actually repeat them again and again and again. So every time you make one flashcard, you need to remember that one flashcard is going to need to be revived anywhere between three to five more times in order for it to be learned. Which means that you're not creating one flashcard. You're sort of creating three times units of revision that you're going to need to do. Which means that it really starts adding up. So that's not even a lot compared to a lot of students that I work with and actually a hundred flashcards is Objectively not really that much but a thousand is a lot and a hundred is pretty conservative So let's say that you've got a hundred flashcards. Well in that case you have created 300 revision units So we're times that you need to revise in the future and those 300 times that you need to revise are obviously gonna take up time But usually the thing is that you don't just have a hundred you have 100 for maybe the first one month or two months And then you add on another 50 in the next month and another 50 in the next month So actually what happens is that the number of flashcards that you create might not be enormous But actually each time you're adding on an additional huge volume of revision tasks to do Faster than you can actually clear them. So the number of flashcards is going up like this Whereas the speed at which you can clear them is actually relatively static and constant because you only have so much time in a day or in a week to do them. So at a certain point it becomes unsustainable. You have too many flashcards and not enough time to do them. And this is when you just can't escape that flashcard grind. So there's a few reasons why this occurs. The number one reason that it occurs is that there's simply too many flashcards. And the number one reason that there would be too many flashcards is that there are too many things at layer four arbitrary details. And the number one reason that there's too many things that are arbitrary details to be rote learned is that not enough was conceptually and logically understood. So when we conceptually understand more through inquiry based learning, through our Bayer Hunter system, it reduces the amount of things we need to rote learn, which reduces significantly our number of flashcards that we need. So that's kind of number one, the most important thing. The second issue that arises is that people generally, because they've got so many flashcards, realize that it takes up a lot of time. And in order to do that more effectively or efficiently in their mind, they do these in batch. So students will often have like a flashcard day where they spend like six hours that day just going through their flashcards. But here's the thing, is that that kind of defeats the purpose of having the flashcards. You may as well just have a massive list of things that you just go through, which would be just as ineffective. The point of flashcards is that it leverages what is called microlearning. And microlearning is a type of learning that is very different to normal learning in that normal learning or normal studying usually looks at studying as a single block of time, usually an extended block of time. It could be 30 minutes, it could be two hours, It could be five hours, whatever it is, it's a single extended block of time. Microlearning says that there is a type of learning that you can do, which is in short, discreet bursts. There shouldn't be a comment here. Short, discreet bursts of learning. So that might look like gaps of five to 15 minutes of learning. Now in five to 15 minutes, It's actually very difficult to, number one, get into flow. It's very difficult to pull out a lot of resources. You're not gonna be able to watch an entire recording or a lecture, or you're not gonna be able to go through much in a course book or answer a lot of questions. You're not gonna be able to do a lot within five to 15 minutes. In fact, it's not even enough time for most people to really settle down unless their focus training is reasonably advanced. So, the thing with microlearning is that it leverages a part of learning psychology that inherently makes things more relevant when things are more urgent. So a great example of micro-learning would be if you're on the bus. Let's say that you're busing to school and that bus ride takes you 30 minutes. Okay, it's a 30 minute bus ride to school. That 30 minutes of bus ride is actually a micro-learning opportunity. So if you do your flashcards in this time, your brain knows that after 30 minutes you have to get off that bus. So there's a hard deadline that's being created. And because there is a sense of time urgency, your brain will straight away say, "Okay, it's more urgent, "therefore this is something that I need to focus more on." So your focus actually ends up going up. And this is why cramming feels more focused because you know that you don't have much time to study. When your focus goes up, you are able to make more connections. and actually therefore your retention goes up. So when you use microlearning, your retention actually goes up naturally because you don't have a lot of time to spare. Because you're working in these short, discreet bursts, your retention actually goes up. So it's inherently a technique that has a high efficiency. Okay, so microlearning equals an inherently high efficiency method of learning. It's not quite as high, in fact, it's really nowhere near as high efficiency as inquiry-based learning, like we've been going through the entire time. But it's a lot more efficient than kind of standard sitting there at the library for four hours, kind of just passively waiting through material. It's a lot more efficient than that. So flashcards are a great resource that we can use for microlearning. It's very easy to be on the bus, pull out a flashcard and get through, you know, 10 or 15 flashcards within 30 minutes. And then that's those flashcards done. It's very easy when you're waiting for the bus, you've got two minutes to wait, you can pull out your flashcards and you can get one or two flashcards done within those two minutes. You're waiting for your friend, or you've ordered some food and you're waiting for it, there's a 1.5 minute wait, you can pull out your flashcards and you can get one or two flashcards done. And actually, when you have these micro learning opportunities, there's two really powerful things that happen. Number one, it means that you can actually use more of your time that wasn't available before. So before, there's no way to use two minutes or one and a half minutes effectively. With micro-learning, you actually can, because throughout the day, number two, the benefit, is that you can actually cumulatively cover quite a lot of material. As in, by the end of the day, you can have gone through easily 50 to 100 flashcards without actually spending any more time, simply by just using those free little gaps of time that you have here and there. So rather than just doing all your flashcards in one day, in a flashcard day, what's actually much better, because this does not actually use any micro learning, because six hours is a very long time. What's actually better is to just do the flashcards throughout the day, one or two here and there, 10, 15, here and there, and throughout the day, between the time you wake up and go to sleep, you're actually able to get through 50 to 100 flashcards every single day without actually spending any more time or having to free up any more time. And that's incredibly powerful and goes a really long way. You're basically creating time out of thin air purely because now you're able to use them. So, number one, doing flashcards in batch doesn't make sense 'cause the most powerful part of flashcards, the micro learning is not even activated. So this is a big no. The other way that people will commonly do flashcards is that they will write their flashcards on physical, okay, P for physical. they'll use physical flashcards. This is a very, very no. Why is this a no? Because if you have 100 flashcards, you now have to carry 100 flashcards with you everywhere in order to be able to use them during these moments. That is not viable. And if it is, that's very uncomfortable. And we normally have more than 100 flashcards. So some students will, at the beginning of every day, prioritize which flashcards that they should take with them on that day. This is completely unnecessary and a waste of time and absolutely useless. It's much better instead just to use a flashcard app because the app you can carry with you on your phone all the time and you can pull your phone out and do your flashcards whenever you feel like it. The other benefit of using your phone through an app is that number one, you have a greater queue to do your flashcards 'cause probably you're already on your phone anyway and if your flashcard icon is there a notification thing on it saying, "Hey, I've got flashcards that are due, hurry up and complete me," then you're much more likely to actually go on and do your flashcards. So it increases your queue. Second of all, it actually will notify you when you need to do your flashcards. Because this spaced repetition algorithm, in fact, the expanding gap spaced repetition algorithm, is unique for every single card that you do. Which means card number one you may need to do this on Tuesday at 3pm and then the next best time to do them might be at Tuesday 9pm and if you get it right you might have to do that on Wednesday at 9pm and then if you get that right you might need to do that on Saturday at 3pm if you get that right you might need to do it on the next Sunday the week after at 11 a.m. and then if you get that right Maybe the best next time is two months later on a Tuesday at 8 a.m. And your flashcard app will actually calculate out this for every single card. And if you get it wrong, maybe you need to do it again at a different time. So depending on whether you get it right or wrong, your best time to do it is constantly changing for every single card. And it's actually a very complicated algorithm. In fact, there's actually a wiki that you can go on where they calculate the ideal expanding gap space repetition algorithm for a single fact And it's ridiculously complicated So it's pretty impossible to track this for physical flashcards, which is why they normally People that do physical flashcards they tend to do them in batch Okay, which we just covered is not effective so already to make you do the habit more easily. You aren't getting notified when they're due because you're not able to actually track it effectively. So you're having to manually track it, which is basically impossible. So your algorithm and your spacing is very suboptimal. And not only that, it's much more inconvenient. Okay, so apps are obviously much more convenient because you're just carrying around on your phone and you're able to sync it and you know, don't have to worry about sorting through or prioritizing flashcards on that day. And so therefore, you're actually more likely to be able to get through them. Now, people that disagree with doing digital flashcards, first of all, have no knowledge about the actual learning research on this, but usually these people that have no knowledge will say, I'll rather do physical flashcards because writing helps me learn. And I hope that you're face palming by reading this at this stage. So the thing is that, yes, as we know, writing is associated with a minor form of learning. There is a very small amount of learning that occurs through the cognitive pathways involved in writing. But we know that writing in itself does not create any learning. It is actually the relationships, It is the connections that are formed. It is the processing and organizing of this information that creates the learning. So writing helps me learn. Yes, that learning that you get from purely writing might be around 1% of importance. Great. For 1% of importance, they are willing to sacrifice the pure amount of time that it takes to write versus typing out flashcards, one downside, and they're willing to forego of these benefits including not being able to use micro learning effectively. Remember flashcards are about rote learning. For rote learning you need to have repetition. Repetition is necessary for rote learning. You can't get past it. It's part of the the curse. That's why it's a necessary evil. You need repetition. The main benefit of flashcards is allowing you to get that repetition through micro learning. That's the main benefit of flashcards. By doing physical flashcards that you write, you are massively reducing your ability to have repetitions through micro learning. And you're doing that, why? Because you prefer a pretty paper and writing it down for that additional 1% extra learning that you get? That is not a smart decision. So this is why I categorically suggest do not do written physical flashcards unless not having more than like 10 of them ever. I would never really use physical flashcards. So instead you use an app and that's basically the principle behind how to use flashcards generally speaking. Next we'll look at the guidelines on flashcard use that just make sure that you're not erring into any common traps or common mistakes that people do even when they do use app and digital flashcards.