(speaking in foreign language) - So I'm gonna show you a technique that allows you to memorize things very, very easily and retain it for a very long time. It's a technique that I've used for multiple times across several years now. I've used it to memorize drugs and antibiotics, dosages, dangers, adverse effects, use cases, mechanisms. I've used it to memorize dates and classical novels for classical studies. I've used it to memorize even random things like the order of a deck of cards. So you can use this to memorize any time there is a list of things that you need to learn and usually grouped in some way. So if there's some kind of particular concept and associated with that, there's like a criteria that you need to memorize or a table of certain things or something like that. And there's 20 or 30 or 50 or even a hundred things that you might need to memorize. You can use this technique to memorize that extremely efficiently. So it will take maybe around one hour to memorize around about a hundred things in order, full recall and able to retain that for six months with only two or three revisions during that time. So it's very, very effective. And there is actually things that I have used this technique for to memorize seven or eight years ago, and I can still remember it. And actually there's some things that I use this technique for to memorize while I was in medical school. And while I was working as a doctor, in my head I was recalling and pulling items from this memorization technique. So it really, really is extremely effective and it's kind of fun as well. It also makes for an interesting party trick. So the technique that I'm talking about is actually called the method of loci or the memory palace technique. And you may have heard of this before. It's very well known. Memory experts, people that compete in memory tournaments, that's a thing, they will often use this technique. It's not that hard to do, but the way that memory experts say to use it is quite limited, I found. And most students aren't able to incorporate this within their learning super effectively because of these limitations. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna actually show you I've modified from the method of loci, which I call the modified method of loci. And the modified method of loci is something that you can use in your academic text. Now remember, even though it's a powerful memorization technique, it's still at the end of the day just a memorization technique. It's just for learning. So don't be too, you know, like dependent on this. It's still about logic and concepts first. Even though I'm able to do this very easily, now I would still only have it as a last resort because I know at the end of the day it's just memorised. I can't use that knowledge as freely and as powerfully as I could, something that I've logically or conceptually understood. So let's have a look at what the technique looks like. And the best way to do this is actually just to show you the technique and action and then I can show you exactly how I did it and then how we can modify it for our notes. So I've got here a list of random words generated from randomlists.com. And just to show you that this is not something that I've pre-memorized or anything, I'm just gonna hit this rerun button a few times so we can actually generate a brand new set of words. So we've got this list of words, okay? We've got 20 words here on the page and you can do this with me. try to memorize this list of words and try to recall it afterwards. So I'm just gonna spend a moment now, I'll, you know, you can see me, literally try to memorize this now. I'm gonna memorize this list of words and then I'm gonna recall it back to you, blinded, and I'll explain exactly what I did to learn this. So, let's start. [Clears throat] [Mus -Bakalım nasıl bir şişe alacağız? (indistinct chattering) 이곳 -Hepsi (Kar Alright, great. So that took me around 3 minutes or so to do, I think just, yeah around 3 minutes, maybe just over 3 minutes. And I feel like I've gotten a good grasp of these 20 items, and that may have seemed like a long time, I don't know if it seems, I don't know, does 3 minutes seem like a long time? But what I'll do is I will recall this. In fact, let's do it this way so that you know that I'm not looking at it again. You can see the screen here. And I'll start from the beginning to recall them and I'll explain how I did it. And you can maybe give it a go yourself first to try to see if you can recall the same things. But it was quarter, bath, train, wood, farm, education, needle, linen, advertisement, jeans, crown, kittens, butter, tray, door, regret, step, dinosaur, swim, duck. I think that was it. Did I miss anything in the middle there? No, I don't think, I don't think I did, great. Cool, now just to, I guess, flex the knowledge a little bit, let me do it in reverse. So, duck, swim, dinosaur, step, regret, door, tray, butter, kitten, crown, Jean, advertisement, linen, needle, education, farm, wood, train, bath, quarter. Okay. And I could start from in the middle and go outwards. I can start from any point and go backwards or forth. Someone could read this out to me and miss one word in any random order and I'll be able to pick out what that word is. And I've got 20 words here at the moment and I didn't do more for the sake of time, but I can generally get around 50 pretty confidently and if I really have time to spare, I could get probably around 100 to 150. At 150, it starts getting quite challenging to keep all of it inside and the time taken would extend a lot longer. So it took me three minutes, three to four minutes to do 20 items. It wouldn't take me there for 15 to 20 minutes to do 100 items. It would take me probably more like 30 or 40 minutes hundred items as a number of things increased it takes a little bit longer to keep adding them on. So the way that I did this is actually very simple and what I want to do is first explain it and then while doing that I can explain the modification. So the memory palace technique basically says that you think of something in your in your mind a place that you know very well literally a palace. So this could be your home, this could be your school, this could be, I don't know, anywhere that you have a really good in-depth knowledge of. If you close your eyes you can visualize it. The original memory palace technique says that you assign items in your room with the attribute. So if there's a particular type of, I don't know, like a doormat, then that doormat for you might represent quarter. So you have that doormat having like made out of quarters or something. And then you walk in and you might see like a umbrella, you know, there might be an umbrella hanging on your door and that umbrella might represent bath. So you might say it's like, it's dripping wet or something. So that's the original memory palace technique. And in fact, some variations don't even assign attributes to it. They simply say, think of the doormat and remember the quarter. I don't know how that's meant to work, but most of the usable ones say that you remember certain aspects of it. The difficulty here is that you're still putting them on mundane items, and it can be difficult to turn your mundane item into something like this. For example, if the next thing you can think of is your doorknob, and you have to think of trains, you might not remember that your doorknob is meant to be a train, or something. So, the bigger limitation here, actually more than that, is that you run out of space in your memory palace. So it's great for when you just need to memorise like 50 to 100 things for a single purpose, But when you're learning multiple subjects and you're trying to memorize multiple things and not get them confused with each other, and think, why is my door knob a train? Is that to do with biology or English? It can become very confusing, and I realized this very early on as well. So there's actually no point using the memory palace as it is for academics. I've actually abandoned that completely. So instead what you do is, one of the modifications is you actually remove the memory palace. So what I found is that all you need to do is follow these three rules and create elements to build a story. And then you can paint that story in your notes directly. And that's the modification. Let me explain to you what I mean. So, instead of having the memory palace as an actual place, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna remove the palace and I'm gonna follow these three rules. Number one, the elements in my story or picture need to be absurd. Number two, they need to be spatially distinct. And number three, they need to be interdependent. And you're thinking, what the heck are you talking about? Let me go through this and I'll explain. So here's what I did. If you think of these words, what I did in my mind is I said, okay, I've got a quarter. I imagined a quarter holding a quarter in my hand, and I need to relate that to bathtub or bath. So I imagined having a coin-operated bath that I'm getting into. Okay, coin-operated bath getting into. So I'm imagining a coin-operated bath that I get into. And the next word is train. So based on that, I thought, okay, the bathtub is on a train. And that creates my setting. So now I'm in a train. I've got a coin, I'm getting in the bath, it's on a train, I'm looking out the window and I see things going past. And the next thing is wood. So I could imagine the train is made out of wood. But here's the thing, that's quite mundane. It's not very absurd. A coin-operated bathtub on a train, that's already a little bit weird. The train being made of wood, that's easily forgettable. So instead, what I made was that in my mind, the train is actually, has a forest inside it. So instead of walls, it's like literal trees. And the next part was farm. So as I'm lying here in this forest train that is traveling along a big window next to me my coin-operated bathtub, I see a pig coming out from behind the woods. And that gives me farm. The next word was education. Education. I had a number of ideas here. I thought, maybe I'm looking out the window and I see a school. But that's not very memorable because it's kind of boring. So I thought, what if there are school kids on the train? Okay, that could work. But school kids on a train, that could be pretty boring as well. What if the school kids are screaming as they run past me in my bathtub and they're running away from, the next thing, someone threatening them with a needle? So now I'm in my bathtub, relaxing, woods, piggy comes out, and then I see all these school kids and a teacher hurrying them along because there's someone chasing them with a needle. For me, now, I'm connecting that story to the next one. Linen. I get up quickly out of my bathtub, I pick up a piece of linen that's on the wall, and I hold it up so it's covering me so hopefully that needle-wearing maniac doesn't see me and just goes past. And as I'm holding up the linen, I realize there's actually an advertisement on it. I'm holding up a huge linen advertisement for jeans, which reminds me I need to put my pants on. So I put my jeans on, and I see that the needle-wearing guy is gone. I go out, I peek past the woods, okay? And the pig is going and screaming off into the distance. I peek past the woods and I see all the school kids and the teacher consoling them. And the needle maniac has been reprimanded. He's being contained and he's been arrested by the queen's guard. That's the crown. Who's the queen? The queen is naturally a cat or a kitten sitting up top, watching this all unfold and the cat queens, guards are arresting this needle wearing maniac as the train comes to a stop. I exit and I'm hit in the face with the smell of butter and this place is selling butter everywhere. Now, someone selling butter, that's not very memorable. So I need to make it absurd. This is a city where butter is all they've got. They're selling butter on the street side, there's butter on the floor, I smell butter everywhere, there's butter popcorn on the side, everything's butter. And the next word is tray. Again, another very boring word. I could have thought of someone bringing me a tray, okay? And that might've worked if I thought of someone bringing me a tray and then I interact with that tray in some way. But instead I decided to imagine right in front of me there is an entire tray-sized, sorry, a building-sized tray, an enormous skyscraper that is effectively a massive tray. and I am walking towards this train. Now, in my imagery, I actually have a swimming pool, a huge swimming pool, sort of like the one, not really a swimming pool, but like a huge pool like you'd find outside the Taj Mahal. A huge pool leading up to this train. Now, I'm looking behind me and I see the train, and I see the kids through the window, I see the cat sitting up there and the needle-wearing guy detained. I'm walking past the butter and I'm walking past this pool. This pool becomes relevant later, and it's something that I added afterwards. I'm walking past and the front of this huge building-sized tray, I open the door and immediately I see a bunch of dinosaurs staring at me. So the first thing is I open and I'm full of regret because I see a bunch of dinosaurs. I quickly close the door and I do a huge step to the side, stepping gently around the pool so that when the dinosaurs crash out of the door, they will not be able to swim, and they get eaten by a massive duck that's sitting in the pool. So that's what I had going in my mind, and which is why I had the pool there. When I get off the train, I wanna be able to see the pool and the duck there, because I know that eventually that's gonna connect. So I want you to notice how absurd all of this stuff is, and therefore it's memorable, but also it's spatially distinct. I don't have everything unfolding from my vision sitting in the bathtub. I made sure to move around so that there's not too much happening in a single space because that can get confusing. So I did stuff on the train, I got the train to stop, I got off the train and I carried the story on. The other thing is that it's interdependent. I wouldn't be in the bathtub unless I coin operated it with my kora. I wouldn't be covering myself with the linen unless there was a needle wearing maniac. I wouldn't have put my pants on if I didn't see the advertisement for the jeans, I wouldn't have gone through the door unless I saw the tray building. And I wouldn't have, after stepping out, I wouldn't have noticed the pool with the ducks and the butter if I didn't know that there was swim and duck coming in later. And I wouldn't have closed the door so quickly if I didn't regret seeing the dinosaurs. So do you see how all of these things depend on each other? It's hard for a single thing to be forgotten because it's connected to lots of other things. So again, we're leveraging the idea that the brain works through connections, and we're maximizing the number of connections that we create with any individual component. What I do now is I take that picture in my mind, and I try to draw that in my notes to the best of my drawing ability. Now, given my drawing ability is probably above average, and it's just because I did a lot of drawing when I was younger. However, I have some students who are very not drawing ability above average whatsoever, and they still find it perfectly effective. The idea is that you just need to give it your best go. Even if it looks like a one-year-old drew it with their elbow and mouth, it's still gonna be fine because the learning actually doesn't come from how accurate it looks. The learning comes from the process in your mind of trying to represent that in a drawing. All you need to be able to do is look at the drawing again and kind of make out what's going on. As long as you can figure out what's going on, that's enough. And what I'll do is I'll do two different drawings of the exact same thing, one which is more detailed, and I'll do another one which is much more simple, so you can see that both of them will be just as effective. Pescaire - Pescaire [Bell ringing] Mereka (birds chirping) Okay, so what is that? 20 minutes later, I've got two drawings now to represent my modified method of loci. You can see the bathtub that's coin operated with the linen, the woods, the pig to represent the farm, the kitten, the crown, the needle stabber, the education on the train. And then coming out we can see our butter our duck swimming in the pool and we've got the tray the door and my step to the side to dodge the Dinosaur and then here I'll just I guess I'll just put like a really sad face on this door to represent the door of regret I'll put that sad face here as well door of regret and I've got the same thing so you know if I were doing this properly in my own notes I would spend a lot more time on this. I would really flesh out the detail and get really quite artistic I'll probably spend a good hour just drawing this note and for me It's completely worth it because I know that I'm never gonna have to revise it really ever again And I can just rely on this drawing, but here I've got basically the same drawing but Done in very easy, you know doodles you can see if this is the limit of your artistic ability That's all good right none of this is very hard just some stick figures some little exclamation lines just to make things pop out a little bit more and You know just some some good old stick figure craft going on This looks like a purple kangaroo, but it's angry so it must be a dinosaur And you know so it's just it's still very easy You know if this is the limit of your ability you just you just do your best Usually the thing is that people don't really have patience with it. They kind of just rush it, but you know take your time Color things in anyone can do this anyone can color in the trees and It makes it look a little nicer anyone can select a brown color and Color in the the woods just to make the woods look a little bit nicer, right? This does not take any skill. You know this doesn't take any skill, so that's really easy to do That's very easy to do. So you know push your artistic ability and put these in your mind maps, okay? So where do these images live these live? Inside your mind map okay, they live inside your mind Map okay, so your mind map will have a combination of these things as well as Having all your major connections and stuff if you have something that doesn't really fit into the mind map you think it's like quite random and it doesn't really seem to connect with anything else. You can have a separate thing just for this as long as you label it correctly. And after I've done this, what I usually do is I then write a list on the side. I usually write a list on the side of all the things I was meant to memorize, just so I've got it for my reference. So in case I forget one of these, what it's meant to mean, I can look at this and be like, ah, that's what it meant. And I can kind of just relate it back onto it, okay? So that is what it would look like. So you basically have at the moment a system which has mind maps that include memorization as well as concepts, as well as your flashcards. (speaking in foreign language) अपने पासे पर जो