Now at this time, I just want to remind you of something that we've actually already covered before, but I want to re-emphasise it, which is the idea that when you're doing revision, we want to make sure that we abide by the same fundamental good revision principles that we covered at the very, very, very beginning. And remember, the important thing about recall versus recognition. Now I'm actually going to introduce a third part to that, which is even more effective than recall. But for now, just remember, recall is like looking at a 50 cent coin and saying, "That's a 50 cent coin, you can recognize it." Recall is like being able to close your eyes and visualize it and draw it out from scratch accurately. There's a big difference between recognition versus recall, where recognition is basically useless and there's not really any meaningful way to use recognition in our learning. and most of the time it does more harm than good. Well, in fact, it doesn't even really do any good. So it just does harm. We don't wanna have recognition-based revision. We wanna use recall. And remember, there's a difference between true recall and cued recall. So cued recall was when you look at your notes, close them, and then try to recall it. That is recall, but it's not as good because of the fact that we had to cue ourselves for it. Now, having learned about cue response pathways and how it's only 0.2 seconds between a cue and a response, we can see how that could really trick us into thinking that we know it, but then when we go into the exam and we're unable to cue ourselves based on briefly looking at our notes, we may completely not be able to get it. So we only wanna use true recall wherever possible, or if it's particularly tricky or we're really early in the stages of revision, then maybe queued recall can be a stepping stone. But we wanna make sure that as much as possible, we're going towards fully true recall, where we haven't even looked at the material that we're revising for at least 48 hours. And this is another reason why flashcards are good is because we often are on the move, we're waiting at the bus, we're on the bus, we're out and about, and we can just pull out our flashcards and we can do it. And we normally wouldn't be looking at our notes again. we can simply just do it and do true recall. So just remember that there's different ways to use the same technique, and slight adjustments in the way that you do the technique can have very profound impacts. So anyone who sat down for a proper evaluation with me knows that when I ask them questions, I ask very specific questions. I ask when they read something and write it down, how much time do they spend in between? Because that tells me about how much they're thinking about it inside their head, how much processing and how much organization is occurring. I ask them what type of book they use. I know that if they're using an A4 lined book, they're probably not using mind maps, their notes are more likely to be linear, and they're probably not prioritizing relationships. And that means that there's a fundamental gap in their knowledge about learning, purely from knowing what type of book they use when they write notes. I can ask someone how many colors they use. If they don't use many colors, then I can tell that they don't really spend much attention on visually emphasizing the main points. Therefore, their priority is probably on the information rather than on the relationships. And lots of colors combined with A4 lined notebooks probably means that this is someone who writes linear notes, makes them look relatively pretty, and therefore is completely not focused on building the relationships at all. So this is another one where I can ask someone when they revise, How long do you wait between reading your notes and actually revising it? And most of the time before revision, people will skim through what they're about to revise before doing a recall, most of the time, which completely doesn't actually make sense. You want to make it as close to true recall as possible. So just a little bit of a reminder, and we're going to relatively soon actually be introducing another technique that you can use, which is even better than true recall. And it's probably in terms of the overall all-rounder efficiency is probably the most effective revision strategy that I know of. So look out for that, but in the meantime, you've got a few more memorization aids to look forward to. Звідси є декораці