So we're on the way to the summit. And as a recap, we have looked at a bunch of skills in terms of how to manage your time, how to reduce procrastination, how to be more effective and productive overall. We looked at different mindsets and how the fixed miindset, which is so common, holds people back, and then how the growth mindset really propels, well, growth. We also looked at bunch of different learning techniques and study skills and how we can start incorporating that into our work. into the basic Bear Hunter system, which uses inquiry-based learning, and then pivoting that towards the hip-shot variation, which is even faster and can be more efficient and time-saving. Now we are putting in the missing piece of the puzzle, which is what do we do with that remaining fourth layer of learning, the rote memorization, the arbitrary details, So things that we just need to memorize. So remember, conceptual learning is more effective and it's vastly more time efficient. When you understand why things are, you don't need to memorize them. So the sign of a low level learner is that they will rely on memorization. The sign of a high level learner is that they try to reduce what they need to memorize by as much as possible. Memorization is always a last resort. Remember that. though I'm gonna teach you techniques on how to memorize more effectively, it's still a last resort. The first step is always to understand the logic, then fit the concepts around that, and then nail them in with your concrete, more specific, important details. The rest is for rote learning, repetition, that less efficient way of learning. So it's two very different types of psychology. One way of learning. It leverages the way that the brain has adapted since way back to learn highly efficiently. We're using the brain exactly as it needs to be used. The other side, rote learning, is a necessary evil because of the current education system and just the demands of academics that we have in modern times. It's not using a highly efficient part of our brain. However, we can use certain parts of our psychology, hack into those to make things more memorable. And you'll see that even the memorization techniques, they do still relate a little bit to those basic principles that we've already talked about before that increase your retention. So remember, two different psychology states. One is repetitive and requires that time and repetition to drill it in through rote learning and memorization. The other one is naturally memorable and has high retention because it makes sense conceptually, it's very logical, and intuitively we can understand the topic. And we wanna have as much of the learning with that second more efficient stage than the first very time-consuming step. Super, super important that we don't forget that. Otherwise, you're gonna start sliding down a spiral. The only way that you really save time by maximizing the efficiency of the conceptual learning. So you save time for the rote learning that you need to do afterwards in the exam preparation. So those level four details, the stuff that we will end up having to rote learn, these end up being things that are very, very specific. Very specific. These might be the dates that someone was born. These are the enzymes that are used or the catalysts, the names of certain proteins that are involved in certain steps, the specific steps and stages of a particular cycle or a process. Maybe it's a very specific order in which you use a equation or a formula, or maybe it's a constant that you need to memorize to use for your exam, or a titration number. Very specific details, very, very superficial, very specific and highly focused. These are ones that often do not connect with lots of other different concepts as a single use case scenario. So these are the things that we wanna just memorize through rote learning. And the rest we'll be able to learn through the other techniques that we've already covered. So the two combined cover all four layers of learning to reach the highest level of mastery possible so that you can both recall the nitty gritty details as well as see how all of it fits together very intuitively. So now we're gonna go through some of the memorization techniques that you can start incorporating into your full and complete Bear Hunter system. (speaking in foreign language) Oh [Birds chirping] [BIRDS CHIRPING]