So what are marginal gains and why do you need to be obsessively focused on honing in on marginal gains while you go through this course?

Well, let me tell you a story about a British cycling team.

And I know you're thinking, what does a British cycling team have to do with studying?

But it's a really good story to prove the point, so be patient with me.

So the story goes like this.

In 2013, someone called Dave Brailsford was appointed as the performance director for the British professional cycling team.

Now, something you have to know about the British cycling team at this time was that it had had about 100 years of being just average.

So since 1908, they won only a single gold medal at the Olympic Games.

In the Tour de France, they did even worse.

So in 110 years.

No British cyclist had ever won the event, which is honestly pretty poor performance.

In fact, they actually got so bad that other bike manufacturers would refuse to sell their equipment to the British team because they thought it would damage their brand image so much if they saw British people using their equipment.

That's how mediocre the British cycling team was.

So what did Dave Brailsford do differently?

Well, what he did is probably not what you expect.

You may expect that he did this huge revamp of their training regime and got them better equipment and got them better nutrition and all of that stuff.

But actually, this is what he did.

They redesigned the bike seats to make them more comfortable.

They rubbed alcohol on the tires so they'd have better grip.

They got the riders to wear electrically heated shorts to maintain ideal muscle temperature.

They got the riders to wear a They even looked at the environment which bikes were stored.

For example, they painted the inside of their vans white because it's easier to spot specks of dust, which would increase the maintenance cost and degrade the performance.

They hired massage therapists and massage gels to increase muscle recovery during training.

They even hired a surgeon to teach the riders how to wash their hands properly to reduce the chances of the riders catching a cold.

So these are all changes that would seem absurd and trivial at the time.

How much difference could it make to spot specks of dust in the van to a team that has been losing for over 100 years?

So these are the results.

Five years after Brailsford started doing all these marginal gains, the British cycling team completely dominated the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing.

They won 60% of the gold medals available.

Four years later in the Olympic Games in London, they set nine Olympic records and seven world records.

The world record was the world record for the world's largest cycling event.

The world record was the world record for the world's largest cycling event.

The world record was the world record for the world's largest cycling event.

The world record was the world record for the world's largest cycling event.

The world record was the world record for the world's largest cycling event.

The world record was the world record for the world's largest cycling event.

The world record was the world record for the world's largest cycling event.

However, if you increase the efficiency at which you are able to study by just 1% per day, by the end of the year, you will be vastly more efficient at studying compared to the beginning.

Vastly more efficient.

In fact, if you do the maths on this, you would be around 37 fold, 37 times more efficient just from having a 1% improvement every single day.

Now, I'm not saying that it's possible to get 37 times more efficient, but what I am saying is that even 1% per day is extreme.

So, a lot of these students that we have coming into our course that don't do well.

There is a clear pattern.

We call these students and we ask them why they weren't finding it as effective.

We ask them for feedback.

We really dive into this to figure out why are there some students who use a system that we know works, we have proven and we've got a track record that we know works, it makes sense scientifically, there's research around it, we have consistent results, yet for some students, they go into this course and it does not work.

And this could be you, which is why you need to pay attention to this.

And that could impact on your exam results.

This could impact on your test results.

When we ask them this, there is a strong pattern that comes out.

And the pattern is that the students are, number one, demotivated because they don't feel that they are improving in a measurable way.

They don't feel that they are really achieving leaps and bounds of success.

And those tiny 1% gains that they are stacking up, they are going unnoticed.

And because they are going unnoticed, they get complacent, they are not as strict about it, they don't use them as religiously in their study, they get lazy, they don't practice as much.

A lot of these things start affecting their experience of the course and the techniques they are using because they don't realize that it's the accumulation of these 1% gains.

It actually makes an enormous difference.

The students that we see that consistently apply the techniques, consistently engage in our community for feedback, consistently talk to us and ask us for feedback, that send us their work, that practice on their subjects, that look for those tiny improvements in efficiency, taking what we teach them, transforming it and practicing it and really getting good at it.

We see that those students almost invariably in any curriculum at almost every year level, they see dramatic and usually very quick improvements in their test results, exam results, overall academic confidence, overall level of retention after studying things, their level of focus and concentration in class, even the amount of enjoyment they feel from studying a topic.

We had students who said that math was their worst topic.

They hated it.

And after applying these techniques, math became their favorite subject.

They looked forward to it.

They found an inherent sense of enjoyment in the topic.

I mean, if you don't enjoy learning topics at school, imagine going to school and being excited to sit in class to learn.

This is some of the things that are possible when you use these techniques a little bit more diligently.

But you do need to be aware of these marginal gains.

But I do appreciate that it's very difficult, which is why we're going to work on an activity to discover the 1% gains.

So that you can track it yourself and you know at any given day or week what is your win criteria.

How do you know you are winning 1% every single day versus going in the wrong direction by 1% every single day?

We're going to do a quick little activity to teach you this skill.

And what I recommend that you do is that you do this on a weekly basis and you keep track of it.

Have a diary or a journal, dedicated notebooks.

Whatever it is.

Put your name on it.

Have it on your shelf.

Have it on your desk.

Carry it around in your bag with you.

And this can be your experimentation log.

You have your 1% goals that you're tracking on there.

And you're tracking them every single day so that you know you're going in the right direction.

And that means that when you ask us for feedback, you know exactly what might be going wrong.

Because there's a goal that you are not reaching rather than a vague kind of idea that something is not working.

Remember, we're here to help you succeed.

But you've got to make it easier for us to help you.

And this is one of the key things that we see unsuccessful students are not doing, which is not tracking their wins.

Bapak!