So, good aiming looks like creating curiosity. It means that we really care about what we are learning, and we have all these different questions that we want to explore, especially really high yield, high relationship forming questions like, "Why is this important?" and "How does it relate to everything?" And we know that it's important to shoot in the direction that we've aimed. So if we have these questions in mind, but as soon as we start reading the book or writing our notes, we just go off on a tangent or get sucked into our old habits and old ways of studying, then it's not going to be as effective. And that's a very common mistake that people will make. So what good shooting looks like is that you have that exploritative mindset. You're exploring the topic, you're exploring it in terms of what you want to know, as if you're in the savannah looking for clues to solve a problem. we're maintaining that problem solving mindset, and we're even facilitating it. We're not holding it back, we're facilitating that mindset by allowing us to learn in the order that we choose, that we think is the most relevant for us, based on what questions we have, especially the questions of why is it important and how does it relate? So as we answer those questions, our order will naturally change, almost guaranteed. And then we facilitate that process way that we write our notes as well. So it looks like for someone else that was looking at a high-level learner doing the shoot step, what it should look like is a lot of thinking about things, flicking through pages, thinking about it a bit more, flicking back and forth, thinking about it and then writing down a few notes and then maybe looking at what they've written down and trying to connect it together, thinking for a bit more, realizing what the next set of questions are and then going into the resource to look through it, doing that process back and forth. Very organic, okay? And some people might think it's chaotic because there isn't a linear order that it's going in. But remember, following someone else's order that has been prescribed to you, that is true chaos because your brain doesn't even know what to do with this information. It's struggling, it's trying to go uphill, it's trying to figure out what it means at the same time as figuring out how to make sense of it and why it needs to care. And that's when the retention really drops. So doing it this way, although on the outside seems chaotic, on the inside is actually a lot more logical, makes a lot more sense, and it's the order in which your brain wants to learn. So that's what good shooting looks like. So why is it that people would still, despite knowing what this good shooting looks like, still go back to their comfort zone and write notes linearly, spending lots of time writing ineffective notes. Well, one big reason is that people often say "mind maps don't work for me, it's not how I learn, why I've tried it and it doesn't work for me." As I've mentioned before, mind maps are inherently sort of the way that we think. Mind mapping as a technique is one of the only techniques in note writing that has come from the way that we think about it, rather than the other way around. So when we write notes normally, left to right down a page, linearly, paragraphs, bullet points, lists, flashcards, all of that sort of thing. That's not the way that our brain thinks about it, right? And again, if we go back to the hobby, if you think about swimming or skiing or playing basketball or your favorite TV show, you don't understand it in terms of a manual in your head. You understand it spatially. You understand how things relate to each other. The mind map is simply taking that and trying to express that into our notes. So do you see the way the mind map is formed is a representation, a map of our mind. Whereas the way that we might normally write notes is actually trying to force our brain to think in the way that we're writing. And this is purely because of the fact that we're just used to seeing it in books. So you can see how artificial it is. So from a neuroscience point of view, the brain responds inherently to mind maps very well. And it's actually the way that our brain tends to learn. The reason why people would not find mind maps effective is if they don't do it with the right steps. Specifically, the most common reason people don't do the mind map well is that they jump out of the layers and learn it in the wrong order. They go into the details and straight away and are focused too much on the what. What is this? What does it mean? What is this list? And just try to memorize it straight away. It's a trap that people fall into because that's what they're so used to. We need to be very aware at which layer we are on. What's the purpose? First of all, right now, my purpose is to get a general good backbone and understanding of the overall flow of ideas. Now, after that, number two, I want to add on the concepts to that. Really start to add a little bit more detail so that when I'm looking at it, it's not just a flow of ideas. It's actually seeing how different concepts pin onto that, hang off of it, and how they all work together for this greater purpose. And then after that, we're adding on concrete details that anchor it in place, followed by arbitrary details that we don't even need to have on a mind map, actually. Those things, we can just put them on other memorization techniques, like flashcards, or other techniques that I'll teach you later. And remember, again, just because you had a bad experience with mind maps in the past, it doesn't mean that you're going to have a bad experience with mind maps moving forward. because if you didn't do it the right way, it's not a relevant comparison. And I just want to reiterate that I've never met a student who actually did mind maps the right way and didn't find it effective. I've only ever seen students give it a go the wrong way. And the issue is that I say the word mind map and they think, oh, I've already tried that, it doesn't work for me, let's move on. But actually, if you were to critically examine the mind map, it wouldn't work. And I challenge you to actually prove me wrong here. You know, I really strongly believe that the people that have tried mind maps in the past and it hasn't worked for them, they simply just have not had the correct technique. And also remember, thinking that you don't learn a certain way and that you have to learn something another way, this is a fixed mindset on learning. And what the overwhelming research conclusively has shown is that there is no such thing as a fixed learning style. All people are able to learn in multiple ways and almost everyone benefits from learning in multiple different styles. So if you are predominantly used to visual learning, it's good to incorporate some more reading or writing. However, in a modern academic system, most people are predominantly read and write learners. and I can't remember the exact statistic off the top of my head, but it's something like 80 to 90% of students identify with the read and write learning style. There is no genetic basis for that. It's purely what they're being conditioned to. However, it still doesn't mean that they should only learn through reading and writing. They would all benefit from learning through a combination of visual, plus explaining and listening to explanations and having discussions, and maybe even practicing and doing practical applications of it if it's something that's possible. So for example, something like physics or maths, where there's a lot of problem-solving, real application of knowledge going on in there, this is something that's really necessary, the real gaining experience using the information. So we want to have all of these aspects in our study and we want to be quite deliberate about it, otherwise there are some sweet, sweet efficiency gains that we're missing out on and it's just so easy to do it. The hardest part is believing this is going to help you and committing to it. And again, the system that we've got is set up so that if you just commit to the process, you take that leap of faith and you really apply the techniques as we've laid them out for you, you will find success. I can guarantee that. And if you're struggling, remember, we the team here, we're always here to help you and we have a lot of experience helping you through your issues. I promise the issues that you might face are not unique issues. They're ones that we are used to solving hundreds, if not thousands of times. All you have to do is experiment. And if you fail, bring that failure as data to us and we will help you learn and figure it out. And that's, that's the process of self-improvement. Okay. There's no improvement without failure. So don't get locked into the fixed learning style mindset. The mind map I'm sure will work for you when you're, when you're applying correctly. Now on the other hand, some people will say that it takes too much time. I'm wasting time in doing this backbone because I'm not getting into the detail. But remember, this is a statement made from the perspective of someone who doesn't understand learning. Learning is about the relationships. Learning is about the relationships. If you don't form the relationships, the learning doesn't happen and you have to remember that. It doesn't matter how many details you go through. It doesn't matter if you spend five hours writing down everything and try to memorize all the detail. At the end of the day, that knowledge is going to be wiped out of your brain because your brain doesn't want to keep it. The secret, the key, the feature of every high-level learner is that they prioritize having higher attention by focusing on the right layer at the right time. So the time spent building a structure and a backbone. The time spent really working out the concepts, figuring out how it arranges in space, figuring out how to express it without using words. This is all learning because it's using your brain and forming different types of connections and different angles of looking at it. Something that previously was only read now is connected to an imagery and a vision of it and the process of drawing it out and arranging it on the page. All of these things contribute to learning. So it's not time wasted, it's time invested. The true time wasted is time spent reading, writing, and memorizing something without even focusing on the relationships. That is time wasted and that's the type of thing that honestly I can't even bring myself to do anymore because it just feels like such a time waste. And even better than that is that once this becomes habit for you, once you reach a level of unconscious competence where you don't even have to think about it, your brain has just been programmed to do it and you're able to go on autopilot, this becomes much faster than your original technique because now you don't have to focus on doing the technique. So it's just as fast as whatever you're comfortable with right now, your conventional note-taking style. It's just as fast because you don't have to think about it. But the technique in itself is inherently more engaging, it activates more aspects of your brain and it makes it a higher retention inherently. So we're saving time on top of time on top of time. A third reason that students might think that this is not worth pursuing is because they find it too challenging or too difficult. It takes too much effort and energy inside the brain to actually figure out how to do the mind map correctly. It's just too hard. And I'll often find students saying, "I just can't do it, I can't do it." You can, you definitely can. Remember, failure is growth and failure is learning. And you have to fail a few times in order to figure out how to get it right. But once you get it right and it clicks, it will click forever. And that's when the efficiency really starts taking off. The thing about trying hard is that trying hard is a sign that the confusion, the trying to figure it out, the effort, the challenge, the difficulty in using the technique, That is actually a sign of your brain really working hard to figure it out. If you ask someone, how do I put this picture together? How do I put this jigsaw together and complete the puzzle? And they sit there looking blankly. And then after a while they say, I don't know. Versus someone who really is looking at it, thinking about it, looking at different angles. At the end of the day, they also say, I don't know. Who do you think actually thought about it properly? You'd probably look at the first person who stared blankly and think, this person's not even trying. They're not even applying themselves. Their brain is not even working. So if you're studying and you're finding it really easy in your head, in fact, so easy that your brain is so turned off that you're even falling asleep, you're getting drowsy, how many of you have felt drowsy while you're sleeping because it's so boring? And you know it's not 'cause you're sleep deprived. You know it's just because the act of studying is so boring that you fall asleep. That is a clear indicator that your brain is off. It's not possible to learn while you're falling asleep because learning should be a highly engaging process in your brain. So what that means is if you haven't felt like this challenge and difficulty and the confusion of figuring it out while you've been studying in the past and now suddenly you do, congratulations. Well done. That means you're using your brain the way it was meant to be used. You're activating that problem-solving part of your brain. You're actually learning, and it might have been the first time in your living academic life's memory that you are actually using your brain and activating that high-efficiency learning the right way for the first time. So it's completely normal to feel like you're confused and you're trying to figure it out. That's a sign that your brain is problem-solving. That's a good thing, okay, remember that. That effort, that confusion, correlates directly with learning. And actually, this thing is so well studied, the act of studying and trying to figure things out, the confusion that you feel and that sense of putting in lots of effort to try to figure it out in your brain, that feeling is so closely related to learning that actually it's got its own name and it's called cognitive load theory. And it means that when your brain is under load, trying very hard, it actually produces higher learning. And this is a very consistent effect that we see across the board for all ages, for all subjects, and is one of the key markers for whether a studying technique is effective, is whether it induces the right amount of cognitive load. So if you've never felt this load, cognitive load while you're studying before, it means that that technique was completely ineffective. But now you've got the opportunity to change. So don't be put off by the fact that it's difficult, embrace that. That means that you're doing it right. And it will get easier over time until a certain day where it's harder to not do it than it is to do it. And that's when you know that you've really hit it and you're on autopilot. And finally, people will often ask, Okay, if I'm only asking questions and answering those questions, what if I miss something? What if I miss something important? That's a great question, but you don't have to worry about this. Like I've mentioned before, the way the system is set up is that even if you do miss something, we will pick it up later. But the important thing here is that you're not wasting time by operating at a low level of efficiency and a low level of learning by going through everything meticulously. There is a time to learn certain types of information, and there is a time to learn other types of information. What we are doing is we are saying, we are gonna learn as much as possible, as quickly as possible, based on the order that our brain sets for us. So, it means that the time that we spend learning is high efficiency. And even if we miss things, we can pick that up later. So there's nothing to lose here. we're still gonna cover everything by the end of the day. We'll still go through everything. We will pick up on anything that we missed, but it means that the stuff that we learned this way through that inquiry-based learning was done at a high efficiency and a higher attention. And the stuff that we miss, that we might have to just sit down and memorize anyway, we can do that, but we save time because we're not trying to do that for the whole topic. So if you were to just memorize the entire topic, sure, you're not gonna miss anything, but you're gonna spend so much time trying to memorize it and retain it and relearn it, that actually you might end up missing it because you didn't end up memorizing everything. Whereas if we use inquiry-based learning to learn 80% of the material to a very high level of retention, and the remaining 20%, we then go to learn and memorize the normal way, then overall, we've saved time having to relearn it. And I will teach you techniques to do that rote learning even faster and more efficiently as well. So remember, the system is designed to keep you safe. I wouldn't teach you something that I wouldn't use myself or have used myself to achieve top grades. So don't feel insecure. Don't feel like it's just too risky to try it. Remember, you are taking control of of your learning now. You're being active with your learning. You're really trying to use the right technique that's taught to you by a professional. It's gonna take practice. It might be harder than the ineffective, comfortable thing that you were doing before. But when you put in the work, you do get the results. And the current way that you're doing things, you're probably not gonna find any more efficiency in that. So you need to ask yourself, between the opportunity for change versus definitely doing something that's not gonna work for me in the future, where's the real risk here? Especially when we're here to help you through every single mistake and stage while you're making the mistakes and experimenting and really sharpening your teeth on these new techniques. (static)