(Dış ses maximizing our retention as early as possible so that we're not wasting time on re-learning things and it frees up more time for us to rote learn and memorize anything that we need to that gets left behind as well as you know do exam preparation and more technical subject specific curriculum specific prep that it's harder to save time on. Okay, that's where we're at and we realize that the aim step is that important step to create real curiosity and activate that problem-solving, survive or thrive mentality that the cave theories tells us is a very efficient way to learn. And that's a process of inquiry based learning and when we touched on how we can make sure that we are staying productive and removing distractions and increasing our focus at that point. So now we are actually ready to take the aim and actually shoot. So So what the shoot step really means is that we are taking that curiosity and we're satiating that curiosity. We've got questions and we're answering those questions. So the aim step is the most important. The shoot step is the one where if you do the aim step well, it shouldn't be too difficult. But most students have a lot of difficulty with the shoot step. Not because it's hard per se, but because we often have a lot of habits that we will very easily slip back into when it comes to reading books and writing notes. So I wanna take this very step by step so that you know exactly how to write good notes, how to maintain this very aimed problem solving mindset, even when we're shooting. You know, we don't want to aim and then when we shoot, we're like, blah, you know, and just shoot in some random direction. We want to make sure that we're aiming and then when we're shooting, we are actually shooting consistently in the direction that we aimed at. There's no point having primed our brain to think so efficiently and given it all this curiosity and then when we shoot, we completely just go off on a tangent and then go back to the old linear passive way of studying that we were used to and comfortable with. We really wanna make sure that the shoot is very well aligned so that we're getting that high level of retention that's so important. Okay, so if we look back at that overview of the bio-artistic system that we went through before, okay, this is what we've understood so far. We know about the cave theory. We know that our brain tends to forget. We know that we need to activate this problem solving pattern finding step. Therefore, the Bear Hunter system allows us to aim, shoot, and skin. We know that the aim step allows us to build that curiosity. Hopefully that's quite clear. By now we practice that traffic light system in order to build this. And then the shoot step comes in to fulfill that curiosity. And then after that, we can potentially aim again and shoot again and aim and shoot and aim and shoot until we've really finished studying through this inquiry-based learning process, right? So we're now looking at the shoot step of the Pianta system. This is what we do after we have aimed. So what we do with the aim is this. We're creating high quality questions. Okay, this is aiming. We create high quality questions that allow us to enter into a problem solving mentality, really trying to figure it out, examining the jigsaw pieces. We're very curious about it. And maybe even if we want the highest, highest level, it's even emotional or personal to us because it just makes it more and more relevant. It ramps up, just dials up the relevancy in our brain and makes it therefore increase the level of retention. And the types of questions that we tend to ask, the highest quality questions are the ones that first of all okay well what is it? And then after that why is it important? And number three, how How does it relate to everything? So this should all be a recap, nothing new. But now the new part is what we're doing now, which is the shoot step, which is this bit here, okay? The shoot step, where in the shoot step, what we're doing is we are creating logical interconnected answers. Logical interconnected answers to the questions that we had above. Logical, meaning that we know exactly why the answer is the way that it is. We haven't just memorized it. We haven't just accepted it because it is the way that the universe has made it, not just because our teacher told us. We understand where that answer comes from. It makes sense. Interconnected, meaning that we understand how all the nodes of information connect with each other. We have lots of connections to and from things, and it's activating that part of our brain, like we talked about with that train station example. we have maximized the number of connections and we've given our brain high relevance and said, hey, don't throw this away 'cause it's connected to so many other things. Okay, that's what we're trying to do in the shoot set. What we're trying to do is we're building this. We're building our web of understanding, the thing that I've talked about so much now, we're really building that web of knowledge very, very firmly, okay? And therefore, because it's a web of knowledge, right? Because it's a web with connections, it has to be focused on relationships. So relationships focused, the alternative to relationships focused would be information focused, okay? Well, that's not what we want. We don't want info focused. Info focused is like those questions that ask just what, okay? What is this? What is the definition? Those types of questions where you don't really need to think about how it fits in with everything else. We don't relate it to anything outside of just that individual fact or just that individual concept. That's information focus, and we don't want that, right? We don't want that because, remember, it doesn't allow us to build knowledge that is relational to other pieces of information, and therefore, because it's not relational, it will be isolated, and then our brain says, hey, this doesn't seem to be relevant to anything else. Let's forget it, and that reduces our retention. All right, so we want to make sure that whatever we build in our shoot step, this web is relationships focused, and that the facts and details, the things that we do need to know for our tests and exams, they are logical consequences of those relationships. So again, it means that we have made sense of it. Okay, and again, when we calibrate this to something that we know really well, like our hobbies, or our favorite book series, or movie series, or character, or a sport, or an instrument, stuff that we have learned really organically using the cave theory without even realizing it when we calibrate and compare to that we know that there are facts and details that are very logical. If you're a professional violinist, okay, you know probably how long the bow is just by imagining it without ever having learned exactly how long it is. You know if you're professional soccer player, you know the position of every member of your team and where they are in the field and at any given situation what their role should be. Those are very, that's very detailed knowledge, okay, but you don't have to memorize that. If it was in a curriculum, you might make that into a flashcard and be like, "Oh, okay, in this type of situation," then the answer is, "Okay, the defender needs to do this and and then the striker needs to do this. And you might have memorized that if soccer was a curriculum and you took it at school. But because we learned it organically, we realized that we don't have to memorize this. We don't have to memorize that detail. It just makes sense. It's like, of course, that's the way it is because we understand where it comes from. It's very logical. And that's the type of learning that we want to develop. Okay, we want most of our learning to be logical. Now, not everything is gonna be like that. Again, like I've said before, There is some stuff that you will have to rote learn and memorise just through repetition, but we just want to limit that as much as possible. We want as much of our learning to be as logical as it can be. And one of the best ways that we can ensure that our shoot step is consistent is that, you know, so that if we're aiming in a certain direction and we're aiming to shoot there, we do actually go in that direction rather than just being like blah and then going in a random direction as soon as we open up our textbook because our bad habits just took over. One of the best ways is to actually build a very effective note-taking system so that if you were to follow the guidelines in the note-taking system, it's much harder to do the bad habits. Okay? to look at how we can write notes so that when we shoot, we actually do this type of shooting, and not the bad type of shooting and bad note taking. Because note taking-- so much of studying is just note taking. And we want to make sure that the way we write notes is actually conducive to our learning, and not just a waste of time. And the unfortunate truth is that most of the way that people write notes, and I really, really mean most, like definitely more than 99% of students, they write notes horribly. So don't worry, because after I teach you how to write notes more effectively, your ability to write notes is gonna be so much better than it was before, and it's gonna be so much better than other people around you, your friends will be asking you for help. It's very achievable. I've never had a student who's not able to do this. I have had students that have struggled with bits of it here and there, but it's always just because they've misunderstood a certain step. So I'm gonna do my best to explain every single step as clearly as possible. So when you write your notes, you can be safe and secure in knowing that this is the way that you can truly aim and shoot consistently and do this really effective bear hunter system, you know, from beginning to end without getting it wrong. All you need to do is just listen to my advice, follow the guidelines, and we will definitely be able to get you there. So let's look at how we can write more effective notes as a first step of our shoot system.