Thinking about how they're related while we're even learning each of the keywords. So how does this look when we apply it into a mind map for our shoot stage? So as usual, what we're going to do is we're going to take the major headings and we're just going to figure out how they all interact first because if we're able to build a very basic building block and basic structure of just these core concepts and core headings, then we can fit everything else around them and hang it off, you know, like a structure is meant to be done. So let's have a look at how that shoot stage would look. So this is what that shoot stage looks like in my mind. Okay. We've got different types of asexual production, cloning, advantages and disadvantages I think will come underneath that, and then issues I suspect will be on the side. So in my mind I'm kind of visualizing that we'll have a bunch of stuff over here, a bunch of stuff over here, probably a bunch of stuff over here, and then I'm thinking that's going to link in that kind of direction as well. So this is a general structure that I'm building in my mind. So this here is our structure. Okay, this is our structure. And I just wrote this here in that while we're doing this, we're constantly going back and forth between aiming and shooting, aiming and shooting. As we shoot, okay there's too many O's there, as we shoot, we are getting more information, right? We're collecting information and we're bringing it in and we're organizing it and we're processing it and we're figuring out all these different relationships that are forming. And as a result, we're able to think of new questions that we can aim with. So we're constantly going back and forth and while I was doing this, I was going between aiming and shooting sort of once every five to 10 minutes. So it's a constant process of aim, shoot, aim, shoot, should, you know, if you learn something, add it to the mind map and then you have to go and aim again, five, ten minutes later that's perfectly normal. And that is actually what helps us build these relationships a little bit more specifically and it's what allows us to build these relationships more accurately. So after we've done that, now we're gonna add on the other concepts, right? So we've got a bunch of sub concepts underneath this and we want to Now add the sub-concepts on to the basic structure that we've got to build a bit more of a detailed structure and what we've got there is something that looks like this. So this was a pretty small subject actually. Realistically, we could probably do this for more than just this subject. It was quite small honestly. You could do it for a bigger topic than this. But after chucking all the sub-concepts on, you can see how it literally, it just had attached to it. And we can see that I've got some visual use here abiding by the good note-taking principles that we've talked about. You can see how it's branching and you can see that general flow of ideas. I've even got another thing I've added onto that structure because I felt that this was quite different from how I initially had expected it to look. So I initially expected that vegetative propagation would come out from the types here, but actually I think it fits a little bit more as kind of this encompassing all of these different types. So this here at the stage, we've got what we might call a detailed structure. And this is actually really our mind map. There's not much more else to put on here. Now we'll look in our skin step how we can take this and make it even better because there's a lot of ways that we can actually improve this in the skin step and it's a great example of how powerful using the skin step properly can be.