(Dış ses ourselves for these potential relationships like we do in every aim step. So let's see how that relates when we actually start creating a mind map for our shoot step. So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to take these big headings, okay? We know that each of these points kind of belong underneath this heading. So if we can figure out how these headings relate first and draw up the really basic relationship then we should be able to plant all of these kind of underneath them and work with that. So by asking myself the question, how is the heart related to the vessels? How is the heart and the vessels relevant to the big picture functions? How is the heart rate or beat control relevant to the big picture or the anatomy of the heart? Why are they important? By asking myself these questions, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go and learn about it. I'm going to read, okay, I'm going to Google additional things, I'm going to do a bunch of work to learn how this all works. And by the end of all of this, while I'm going, and while I'm learning about this, I'm going to learn more about these relationships and it's going to allow me to figure out how this works. Now, this is quite a time consuming process initially. Learning about this and reading about it and just getting that basic skeleton there. You've only got four things to work with and yet it still takes a while. But trust me, it starts speeding up much, much faster later on when you build the framework and the basic backbone very strongly. If you rush this part, then you'll run into a lot of trouble later on. And even now, I still feel a little bit impatient sometimes when I'm doing this basic backbone because I'm just thinking, man, there's so much to learn. How am I gonna get through it when I'm still only on this basic big picture stuff, but actually later on it just starts speeding up so much that it's 10 times worth it. So let's have a look at what that looks like, okay? So that's what I got. We can see that I've got the heart, the vessels, the heart rate control, and the big picture purpose. So I said basically stuff from the heart will lead out to the vessels, and heart rate control is activated on the heart, and the big picture purpose is probably gonna relate the whole picture here. So this is kind of how I see the overall structure of the information, okay? So this is the most basic structure and everything else is gonna hang on this. So it might take you like 20, 30 minutes even just to get to this stage, but don't worry because that's time well spent. What we can do now is we can take these other points, other keywords that we've got, all of these little bits, and we can start planting them around it and thinking how we can relate it. And again, asking those questions that we've made in the AIM step, this is gonna help us define those relationships and really figure out how it is all related. And after doing that, it should look something like this. So you can see what I've done is I've actually drawn a picture of the heart here instead. I've got the vessels and I've broken the vessels down into each vessel type there is. And I've made this loop here to show the representation because after thinking about how the vessels and the heart and all of that are related, I realized this is actually the general flow of things, and I've added on a few more things, like the exchange as one of the cardiac cycle control. So these were all the things and the big picture functions here as well. And so we can see that we actually have the relationships all shown here. We're showing that, okay, the heart and then the vessels has this type of shape to it. The control is coming into the heart as we can see. But I've also related cardiac cycle to that as well because while I was learning about cardiac cycle, I realized, oh, that's actually directly relevant to the heart as well. And various other things in terms of the control and then blood pressure over here. So this is now my more detailed structure. And you can see that I've got a little bit more detail on here, but it's still pretty big picture. you wouldn't say that this is enough to do well in an exam, okay? But what I've done now is I've fleshed out that framework, and you can definitely see the similarities, right, between the two. You can see that over here we've got heart rate control, over here we've got control leading to the heart, leading to the heart, heart going to the vessels, heart going to the vessels, this time looping around. And this big-picture purpose I've actually integrated within the structure because I thought that was more appropriate. Again, I was able to realize that it was more appropriate and I was able to come to this understanding how it should all be arranged because I wasn't worried about learning all the information and memorizing the details. What I was really concerned on and what I was focusing on razor sharp was just clarifying the relationships. And because I was focusing so intently on the relationships, it means that I'm able to form the relationships very cleanly. And at this stage, I've already gone through all the material. Once for the aim step, I've gone through all the material again for the basic structure and going back and forth and to Google and looking things up. So this process is constant. We're always going aim, shoot, aim, shoot, aim, shoot. We learn a little bit about heart rate control, and then we have more questions that we can ask that we didn't think to ask before. So we learn a little bit about the brain, the medulla, and we have more questions that we didn't think of before. So we add that question and then we ask that question again and we think, how is this important? How is this related to epinephrine or how is that related to the SA node? And we ask these questions to really clarify the relationships. And so this is a very, very back and forth process and it's very important that we do this back and forth process. It might seem messy, but it's a very explorative, very organic way of learning. And by the end of this, we have a really great understanding of the relationships And even though we haven't written it down, we will inadvertently have learnt some of the detail as well that we were not even trying to memorise. So by this point I've gone through the material probably three times, I've gone on Google a few times to clarify a few things that I couldn't find in the notes and I've created what I think is quite a clean structure here. What I'm going to do next is I'm now going to add even more detail onto it, okay? So let's take that and let's add all the detail that we need onto it and that's what it looks like afterwards. see inside the middle right you can actually see that we have the exact same basic structure in fact it's the exact same mind map as the one above you can see that right except what I've done now is I've added on on top of that I've tried to make that all in blue or some other colors I've added on top of that all the other information so now this is my fourth time going through it and I'm really going through all the detail and adding all the detail onto it okay I'm I'm adding detail onto it, I'm adding detail onto it. I'm really making my knowledge much more solid. And so this is a process here that takes a while. So certainly the AEM step may take a while, but this process is the one that really consumes the most amount of time. But having said that, remember, we are actually doing an entire subject all at once. So even though for me, it didn't take very long because it was a skill that I've already learned, but for beginners, it's very easy for this to take maybe five or six hours even to get to this bottom stage. Yeah, but remember it's five or six hours and by the end of doing this, I can honestly say that my retention on everything that I wrote here was probably 100%, probably 100% at lowest 95% retention. And I made this mind map a few days ago now and I definitely remember everything about it. Obviously it does help that I have medical training, but having said that, I can tell that the knowledge feels very known. Okay, so this can take a while, but after you get more proficient at this, the time really starts reducing. So I would normally expect that this type of thing, this type of mind map would take me anywhere between maybe one and a half to two hours to get to the final point here where I'm really, really happy with everything. And again, this entire time, I'm always going back and forth, back and forth, aim, shoot, aim, shoot, aim, shoot, okay? I'm shooting, I'm learning a little bit more about the cardiac cycle here, and that's giving me more questions. I'm thinking, oh, how does that relate type of control? How does that relate to the different type of anatomy? I've got all these different types of questions that I'm asking, again allowing me to really understand the relationships more clearly. So if you know this topic, feel free to just freeze this frame and just look at what's on there. There's a lot of detail so I'm not gonna go into it a lot, but we'll see how this can be cleaned up even more and how we can really take our knowledge to the next level in the skin step that comes after this. So this is the shoot step. This is our bulk of our learning. The only reason I'm able to create such a highly relational, highly connected mind map here and you can see that it's very connected, very relational, right? The only reason I'm able to do that is because I'm driven by the questions that I'm asking and the initial aim step gives me the initial round of questions but probably, you know, half or just under half of all the questions I ended up asking myself came from shooting and then going back to the aim step. So that's the shoot step and we'll look at the skin step and how we can expand on that later. पचचा एक पची दूपा हूँ।