(Video boyun our aim step here. There's lots of things that are confusing and it almost feels or not even almost, it feels overwhelming because there's so many different things that we need to figure out. Well let's see how we translate that into the shoot step. So as always the first step is just to look at these big picture things, these big picture topics, assets and bases, properties of water, redox chemistry, aqueous solutions, water as a solvent. And I want to know what's the basic backbone of these subjects and maybe some of the main concepts, you know, these green ones, how they might fit in. So what we're doing here is we're building the most basic, basic structure. Okay, that's we're building the most basic structure. So let's see how that looks like. So that's what the basic structure looks like and you can see I've got acids and bases, redox reactions, solubility, water as a solvent here. So what I've done is not only have I looked at how I can arrange it and how they're related, but I've also even tied that to other things and observations that I made. So in asking myself, how are acid and base reactions similar or different to redox reactions, I realized that the main difference is that acid and base reactions are involving protons, whereas redox reactions are involving electrons, and these are both just different types of reactions. So I was able to create a backbone that looks like this, linking it together. Because just linking acids and bases directly to redox is going to be much harder to do than linking it through like this. Again, something like solubility, relating that to water as a solvent, I realize that that is actually related because they're both talking about solutions, and solutions are in water, and water has certain properties. So this is how I was able to connect this. So by asking myself how is solubility and water as a solvent as a topic related? How is the structure of water and water as a solvent related? I was able to realize that there are solvent-solute interactions and some of those involve hydrogen bonds, which is a structure of water. So I was able to create a connection like this between two different topics, right? And again, in terms of ion-dipole interactions and dissociation with the structure of water being polar, I was able to do that. Okay, here I was able to integrate oxidation numbers with the reactions of oxidants and reductants. Again, looking at different acids and how the reactions they have. So getting to this point takes a very long time. The entire time you're doing this you are constantly going back and forth between the aim and the shoot step Okay, you are constantly going back and forth between these two steps and it's completely normal while I was doing this I was going back and forth between the aim and the shoot steps roughly once every five to ten minutes And it took a solid I would say around For me it took around about 30 minutes to get to this point But I completely expect that someone who is not familiar with using the skill yet Will take anywhere from two to three hours to get to this point and again This is actually a very good time investment Because the next step that you're about to see for me actually only took 15 minutes and even for someone that's new I expect would only take around one to two hours which you'll realize is just ridiculous to be able to get through all of that in one to two hours and just do an entire area of study and you know less than 10 hours of study and have an extremely high level of retention and 90% plus level of retention after doing this that's impressive. I also wanted to connect this whole thing with this whole thing but I couldn't really find a good way to connect it. I thought maybe I could connect it in that there are reactions that involve water with an acids and bases and maybe I could relate it to that, however it seemed a little bit shaky, it didn't really seem like a very strong connection to make, so I decided to just leave them separate, so we're going to end up having two different mind maps for this area of study. Now I've written here that this is a critical stage to reach, so if you can get this step right up to here, you're kind of 80% there to be totally honest, which is why I say spending time to do this well is so worth the investment. For the time you invest there is a high return on investment. Return on investment plus plus plus because this is forming that basic structure, remember? This is forming that basic structure of knowledge. And because it's forming that structure everything else hangs on this, which meant that the next step which would have been extremely overwhelming became much easier for me. Now at this point after doing this I don't feel really great about the topic yet. I really feel very much so, still quite confused about things, I have a lot of questions still unanswered and I'm overall still just very overwhelmed with the amount that I'm going to have to study. However, I know that it's all going to consolidate very, very quickly, so I hold off and I don't worry about it and obviously I've got experience using the skills so I know that that's to come, but for beginner learners this feeling of overwhelm is something that often puts people off, but stick through it because once it starts consolidating, it's going to click together at a pace you don't believe. So this is the critical stage, and again we're going aim, shoot, aim, shoot, aim, shoot. As we learn a little bit more about assets and bases, we can start asking questions a little bit more related. Maybe you didn't know about Bronsted Lowry theory as, well Bronsted Lowry theory as detailed, and so we weren't able to ask questions about how it relates to assets and bases as specifically, but once we learn a bit more about it we're able to do that. So the next step is to continue learning about each of these and we're going to add on all the details on top of this now. We're going through the material again. So at this point I've gone through the material already two or three times just to be able to come up with this structure. And now I'm ready to hang all my details onto it. So we're about to add on details into the next step. So we're going to again go back into the text, into our resources, whatever the resources are and we're going to be learning about the relationships, hanging them on here. And as we learn more, we're constantly going back and forth because we'll think of more questions to ask. Again, how does it relate? Why is it important? Constantly going back and forth. Okay, constantly going back and forth. And after doing that back and forth process of going and learning and adding it to the mind map and then doing it again and adding it to the mind map and asking more and more questions and answering them and going through the detail and just going through it to clarify all the different relationships, I get to this point. Where this has basically everything that I need to know. There's a few things here like in terms of specific equations, constants, pH equation, definitions. These are things that I didn't really want to clutter up my mind map with so I didn't put them on there and I'm just going to put these on flashcards and we'll talk about memorization and memorization techniques in a couple of the other camps and how we can do it more effectively but for now I'll just put them on flashcards. So excluding that really really detailed stuff which honestly makes up less than 10% of this entire subject, an area of study, we come to this. So you can see if you're familiar with this topic you should see various things, single arrow versus equilibrium arrow, strength not being proportional to concentration, pH of 7, base is higher, acid is lower. Bronsted-Lowry theory talking about how acids are proton donors, bases are receivers, and you can see how doing it something like this is a very efficient and very clear way of demonstrating that without cluttering up with heaps of writing. We've got a few reactions here and while I've gone through the reactions I've been constantly asking myself why I've been asking myself why is it the way that it is and I've been asking myself how are they similar or how are they different and by doing that it's allowed me to understand these reactions a lot better to the point where I don't even need to try to memorize them it just makes sense so this is a long process but if chemistry is not a strong subject for you I actually extremely recommend that you take the time to do this because chemistry is actually one of those subjects where there's actually not too many concepts. However, those concepts repeat themselves again and again and again. And a lot of the reactions you see are actually very, very similar to each other, even though on the surface they look different. So you could have a reaction that looks completely different to another reaction. And if you don't take the time to think about how they are similar or different or why they occur fundamentally, why not just because it's what's in the book, but physically what's happening with the reactions, You know, what's going on with the electronegativity? You know, what's going on with polarity? What's going on with bond strength? OK, understanding why do reactions actually happen in the first place? If you understand that, you'll realize that a lot of these reactions are actually really just different variations and examples of the same thing. This is why some people are very, very good at chemistry to the point where it's ridiculously easy for them, because chemistry repeats constantly. So knowing this, I went through and looked to find the similarities and I found, okay, we've got an acid. I know that an acid, based on the Bronsted-Lowry equation, I know that it is a proton donor, and I know that a proton is effectively just a hydrogen ion. So based on what I know about bond strength and polarity, I can tell that a metal hydroxide reacting with an acid is likely to have the hydroxide part, which is inherently quite negative, attract the positive from the acid's proton. And so the proton will probably go over here, which means that the bond between the metal and the hydroxide is likely to break because it's probably weaker than the negative and positive attraction from an electronegative point of view. So this type of thought process that I've just done is something that people that are not great at chemistry can't imagine doing. But actually, once you get used to thinking of it like this and you spend maybe a couple hours just really honing in on the very basics of why is it that reactions happen? Why do bonds break? Why do they form? And once you get an intuitive understanding of that, you're actually able to do this for every type of reaction. It's gonna make your chemistry life so, so much easier. It's a great step to do. So that's not really related to the Bear Hunter system. I'm just giving that to you as a pro tip, pro, pro, pro tip. So I know that that middle bond is gonna break and that middle will then go on to whatever acid was minus the hydrogen. So if a hydrogen ion comes onto here, we've got H2O, so we must have the hydrogen ion here plus the OH, that's water, H2O. And then we've got a metal plus the conjugate base, which is the metal plus the conjugate, which we actually call, we just call that a salt. So acid plus metal hydroxide must equal a salt plus water because this simply comes off and this joins together. Whereas with an acid with a metal carbonate, I know that carbonate is a CO3 which in an ionic form is a 2-. So the CO3 is quite negative and there's a bond between that and the metal element or the atoms involved in that. The acid is the same thing, there's a plus here. So I know that this plus is going to be attracted to this negative aspect here and that's going this bond to break. Having said that, this is a 2 and this single plus is not going to be enough. Now this is the thing is that actually you don't just have a single molecule of acid, you've got this metal bathed in acid. So there's actually lots of acid molecules. So there's actually going to be two of these. There's going to be two of these to balance out this 2 charge, which means that we're going to end up with two hydrogens joining on from there, coming on to take the CO3 off, one of the oxygens will join the hydrogens to form the water, so the two hydrogens here come from the two times acids over here, whereas the carbon dioxide is simply the oxygen coming off with the metal and the conjugate acid being formed afterwards. Now that's very similar to the reaction above it, an acid plus a metal hydrogen carbonate. The hydrogen within the carbonate is going to provide the additional hydrogen that would normally come off the acid. So we don't need two times. We've got one hydrogen from the proton here and we've got one hydrogen from the metal here to form the water. So we've got H2 but we don't need two times the acid and we've got the metal conjugate and the carbon dioxide. So this equation is actually exactly the same as this equation. This is exactly the same as this. The only difference is that the hydrogen comes from here instead of coming from two of the acids. So that becomes very easy to memorize, you see. And then similarly up here as well, we've got double the amount of acid here to come off to form the hydrogen because a reactive metal is so reactive, it's going to whip off the acid no matter what, this bond will form and it's going to leave the hydrogen to fend for itself and the only thing it can do is bind to another hydrogen that's floating around that was also left to fend for itself from another reaction that occurred with another reactive metal floating around in that solution. And we've got the salt plus hydrogen gas. So we can see that these reactions, normally people would just memorize them. But if you spend a bit of time to learn them like this, it actually starts making a lot more sense. Now, if you're not good at chemistry, everything that I've just said to you might just seem It's crazy to be able to just think through logically, but if you're good at chemistry, you will know that this is actually very basic, what I've just talked about. And if you're not good at chemistry and what I talked about just now was just very hard to follow, then I really, really, really strongly recommend that you spend the time to learn about electronegativity, polarity, bond strength, and why reactions occur, because that's going to make your life much easier for chemistry moving forward. So we have done this for the rest of the topic. We've kept this separate from this one. And in actually doing this, I realized that the initial framing I had here where I had a solubility curve coming out here didn't actually make sense. And this whole precipitation being here connected to crystallization next to it, that actually didn't make sense either for me. So I actually got rid of that. So you can see here, there's a lot of areas that are now more connected. So this mind map now has all the information on it. And we're going to see that we can take this and we can skin it, and we can get a lot more information out of it. So if you're familiar with this topic, you can freeze on this frame and have a look at the mind map that I've built so you can see how I've structured the information. And then we'll move on to the skin step to see how much cleaner it can get later on. So have a look at this. You can have a look at this mind map to read it in a little bit more detail if you're familiar with this topic so you can see how I've arranged all of that material from the very beginning. So this is the shoot step. (whistling)