(Dış ses that what we're writing down has passed through our brain and we have actively thought about it. How do we think about it? What we do is we take information in, okay, we either read it or listen to it in class, whatever it is, okay, reading, listening, watching a video, we're taking information in, okay, info in whatever form, whatever media it's coming in. Inside our brain, What are we doing? We are activating problem solving and finding patterns, right? So we've talked about the problem solving part. So what are we doing in our brain? We're taking the information in and we're asking ourselves, what is it? Why is it important? How does it relate? And by doing that, we're processing the information. We're processing the information, not just in any way, based on the cave theory, we're processing it in the way that we know our brain works the best. And then we can output that, we can put that into our notes. And how do we put it into our notes? We try to represent it visually, if possible. Not always possible, but we try our best. And then we're adding on the efficiency. So we're making sure that it's processed. So remember, the learning, where does the learning happen? The learning doesn't happen here. This is where people think the learning happens. This is not where the learning happens. Info in our brain will immediately be ejected unless we actually learn it, the learning happens here. When we ask the questions, when we try to figure out how it relates, when we create the relationships, where does the learning happen? It happens here. Where else does it happen? It happens when we think about how do we represent this visually, abstractly, artistically, in different modes. That's also where the learning happens. So this is where the learning happens. this is where the learning happens. It doesn't happen here and if we just read it and then write it out, there's no learning. We have to think about it and process it. So often, this can slow down our learning a little bit. Sorry, it slows down our studying and then we're not flicking pages as quickly anymore because now we have to actually sit and think about it before we write the notes. Whereas before, you might have just basically in and out straight away. Okay, this is very fast, but it's also a waste of time. It's completely ineffective because there's no real learning happening inside our brain based on that. And following on from that, the RE, it has to be relational. What does relational mean? You might have been able to guess. It means that we're representing the information so that the information is not the focus. Okay, so we're not having an information focus. We are having a relationships focus. Okay, so we are representing the relationships. So we ask the question, what is it? Why is it important? How does it relate? We are processing that information. We are representing it visually. And then we're going to move on to the next keyword, the next item, the next thing that we want to know about. And then we're gonna ask, okay, well, what is that? And why is this important? And then when we ask this question, we're gonna realize, oh, it's important because it related to the previous point. So we learn point number one, we ask that question. Okay, we represent this in our notes somehow. Then we take in the second piece of information, the second chunk, we ask the same questions. We realize, oh, these two are related like this. How are they related? And we strengthen that connection by really focusing in on making that relationship super, super clear. And then in our notes, we make sure that this relationship, especially this part here, is really clear. OK, and so a good way to do this is by using mind maps. And we're going to talk about mind maps a lot more coming up, so don't worry too much about that. But that has to represent the relationship. Think about this. If you're not representing the relationships in your notes and the relationships are the most important part of your learning. What is the point of writing the notes? The relationships literally are the thing that give your information meaning. If you are missing the most meaningful part of the learning in your notes, what are you doing? That's where you're wasting time. Okay, so it has to be relational. And what's a very easy way to represent them relationally and do it visually? by now you will have realized you need to actually do this freehand. So you can do it like I'm doing now, digital note taking with something like this. You can use pen and paper. I really strongly recommend doing it digitally because you can do infinite canvas where you're not limited by the size of your paper. Why is this most important? Because number one, when you do it freehand, it requires you to process the information a little bit more. Typing is too easy. And because it's too easy, we tend to not think about it as much, because it's just so fast to be able to just type it out. When we have to think about it more, because we need to write it down, it forces us to process it even more, so it increases our learning. Number two, it's more free, which means that we can actually represent it visually much more easily. I mean, imagine trying to draw something with your keyboard. It's quite difficult. And then number three, most hyped laptop, most hyped things are very bad at representing relationships. Like imagine if you had three concepts, okay, concepts one, two, and three. If you were to explain this in words, you would have to write a paragraph like, one is blah, blah, blah, this is what it is, and also relates to number two, and then relates to number three. Like it would have to be an entire essay to talk about the relationship between them. Whereas in a mind map, you would be able to represent that literally with just like three arrows, just like this. Okay, maybe a couple of words or drawings beside it. So freehand, it's much easier to represent relationships. And again, that's the most important part of the learning. So we really need that. It's much easier to represent things visually, and it forces you to process the information more. This is what all the research has told us. And there's quite a lot of research on this as well that shows that generally speaking, freehand note-taking is superior to typed note-taking across the board. Again, I've felt this for every subject that I've ever studied, and I've seen these results consistently across every single student I've ever worked with.