Okay, effective note taking. So there are a number of guidelines for effective note taking and we can remember them through VPRIFRE. VPRIFRE, okay? Say it with me. VPRIFRE. So VPRIFRE is our guidelines for effective note taking. You don't have to do all of these things all at once, okay? If you have a really, really rigid way of note-taking, and most students do, you know, the very rigid left-to-right linear way of note-taking that you're used to, and then this is just what's comfortable for you, and it's going to take a long time to really follow all the VP/Referee guidelines. Look, that's okay, okay? That's okay. The most important thing is you take it step by step. So follow these guidelines and until you are more comfortable with doing all of these steps, just feel free to stay here. It's definitely worth the time and even if you're just focusing on one of these at a time you will eventually get there. It's much better to do it that way than trying to again summit the mountain in a single go and then just dying and falling off the edge of the cliff and just not having enough energy to climb back up again. So the V. The V stands for making things visual. So when I am talking about visual, you will have seen, hopefully you've noticed by now, is that when I write notes, I use a lot of these images. In fact, you'll probably notice that I spend quite a bit of time drawing things out. My notes legitimately look like that. Now, okay, by the way, I've obviously, okay, studied science, okay, I've studied medical science, which is actually quite different from just pure science, which is including like anatomy, okay, including physiology, including learning about different diseases, looking at communication skills, you know, notes about ethics. I've read notes about philosophy. I've taken university level English. I've studied business. I've studied marketing. What else have I studied? I've even studied a little bit of law and legal studies. So the point is, I've studied a wide range of topics, okay? These effective note-taking principles are applicable for all of these, okay? Across the board, it's always been effective. So what visual note-taking means is that we want to reduce the amount of words using. We don't want to write, we very rarely want to write in full sentences. We almost never want to write in paragraphs. Why is this? There's a very clear reason. So the research is quite clear. The research is quite clear that when you use your brain in multiple ways, or multiple modes of learning, it is more effective. It increases our retention. So if we were to read something and then write it, okay, there's a bit of learning there. But if we were to read it and then draw a picture about it, it would be more effective. But if that picture was a little bit abstract, not even scientific or like, you know, very accurate but a little bit abstract, that's even more efficient. And then if we were to then teach it out loud, and then hear someone explain it to us, and then practice it as a skill in real life, if it's possible, then it's even more effective. So this is actually called multi-modal learning. Now, back in the old days, what we used to think was that we used to think that there was a single learning style. Okay, and actually this you can still hear people talking about their learning style And we used to think that certain people have a certain learning style and for years This is what we used to think we now know this is completely false. Okay, this is complete But not a lot of people know this well everyone that knows about educational research knows this but there are still some people It's so annoying. There's still some YouTube gurus or whatever that preach on about learning styles. The research is Extremely clear on this. There's really no room for argument about this anymore There was actually no such thing as learning styles for individuals That's not to say that so I would say you know like this Reading and writing is one style. Okay pictures abstract represent. That's one style Auditory speaking that's one style, you know practicing That's one style and there's this thing called VARC previously that was quite famous visual auditory read and write kinesthetic kinesthetic being more like experiences and practice and really feeling it. This used to be kind of how we used to study. And these were the different learning styles that people would talk about, okay? These are all the different styles. So some people would say, "Oh, I'm a visual learner. I'm an auditory, I'm a read and write learner." There were so many studies that were done on this, like really enormous, very long studies for a very long period of time to see this. And actually what we realized, it's actually false. So what we found was that most people are read and write and visual style learners, okay? And I do this with air quotation marks. We found that this was their "learning style". But it's only because modern academic schools have such a heavy focus on visual and read and write. But what about auditory? Why is it so that auditory learning, even though we go to classes and we've gone to classes and school is based around people talking to us, why is it that we're not so good at the auditory learning? Well, it turns out that when someone is listening, talking to you, it's very easy to just zone out. It's much harder to zone out when you are watching something or reading something. Okay? It's still possible to, And I'm sure you know that it's possible to, but it's a little bit harder to. So there is actually no such thing as a learning style. What we have found is that there are instead things called learning preferences. Learning preferences. And learning preferences means that for certain types of information, we prefer to learn this in a certain way. So some things we prefer explained to us. Some things we prefer read or written. And some things we prefer watching a video or seeing a flow chart or a diagram. What the research interestingly shows is that most things, almost all things, we are more efficient at learning when we use multiple modes rather than a single mode. So all learners are able to learn in multiple modes. All learners are able to learn in multiple modes. And actually thinking that you have a certain learning style is actually very dangerous. And even some teachers will talk about learning styles. It's false, it's very false. The reason that it's dangerous is because it promotes this very fixed idea that like your brain is just like this kind of, you know, fixed object. The reality is that the human brain is capable of learning extremely well in a very wide range of circumstances and situations and stimuli. In reality, we may have certain preferences, but we should actually use as many modes as possible. The thing that correlates the most with how well we're learning is how switched on our brain is when we're doing it. So if we're not paying attention while we're reading, it's not effective. If we're not paying attention while we are watching a video or drawing a picture, it's not effective. If we're not paying attention while we're listening, it's not effective. If we're not paying attention during an experiment for chemistry, it's not effective at teaching us anything. So the most correlating part is how switched on our brain is. So techniques that are harder to switch off are better, no matter what they look like. So why do I say we should make our notes visual? Because it's hard to make our notes talk to us, and it's hard to experience our notes, we tend to already have a lot of reading and writing in our learning. So having our own notes as reading and writing is very ineffective because it's only using our brain the same way it's already being used. Whereas we don't tend to activate the visual aspect of our brain very often or as often. So we want to make an effort to have visual aspects in our learning. Like little doodles, you know, like I've done here, like little drawings, like using symbols and using shorthand, okay, and using doodles and diagrams. And I'm going to talk about doodles a little bit more here because, like I said, it's actually better to make things a bit more abstract rather than accurate. And this is because it turns out that in the brain, you've got two hemispheres, you know, a left brain and a right brain. I'm sure you've heard about this. The part of the brain that is involved in very like critical thinking and really like Problem solving is actually in a different hemisphere of your brain to abstract reasoning, okay? An abstract and like artistic expression. And we want to actually use both hemispheres. We wanna use both hemispheres. So if you read a paragraph in words, think about how you could represent that paragraph with doodles. That is one of the most effective ways that you can write your notes you're using the critical problem-solving part of your brain, you're reading it, and then you're thinking about how you can represent that differently, which is what abstract means, and then you're artistically expressing that in a doodle. That is incredibly effective. So I know I felt, and my students have felt exactly how effective that is. So when you look at my notes, it's not even, you don't even understand what's going on because there's so many doodles everywhere. And it also, you know, kind of makes learning a little bit more fun as well. 10.5cm x 10cm