(dramatic music) - So quite a few things, quite a few things here, and we'll see how we can use the mind map to do this as well, but this is just the basic guidelines that you need to follow and the rationale behind why. The last two, the R and the E, the R means that it needs to be reflective, And by reflective, I mean that it needs to be reflective of the order in which you learned it. Okay, so a lot of people will write notes in the same order that it was given to them in the textbook. And this is why you might aim in the wrong, you know, you might have realized in your aiming that actually the thing you are most curious about is actually number two first. And then after that, you wanna go back to number one and then number three. Maybe that's the order that you have picked out in your aim step. But some bad habits will kick in. You open the textbook and you see that the first thing on the page is number one, and then so you start and go into number one, and your whole aim process is thrown out the window. You need to make sure that the shoot step, where you're taking information in and learning it, is reflective of your aim. So if you thought two, one, three was the right order for you, you need to make sure that in your notes, you are writing it in the right order for you. And remember, it's almost guaranteed that it's not gonna be in the best order for your brain in your textbook or class notes or whatever. So if your notes are in the same order as the resource you're learning off, you probably didn't do this right. It's like a general rule of thumb. Almost always, your order of information and your flow and the way that your mind map looks and the connections that you make and all of that should be relatively unique. Should be relatively unique, 'cause your brain is unique. Okay, so it doesn't make sense for your notes to be the same as everyone else's, when actually the way you think is inherently different. So it needs to be reflective. And then the other thing that we need to make sure that we're checking off is that it is efficient. When we're talking about efficiency, we're talking about studying time versus learning achieved. And remember, learning is defined by info in, retained, can apply, and use. It needs to fulfill those criteria. So you need to ask yourself, is my current method of note taking allowing me to learn a lot in the time I spend? So ask yourself this question, when you write notes for hours like this, have you learned a lot? Have you retained all of it? Can I apply and use that information after I've written the notes? If the answer is no, that means that there is time being spent where learning is not occurring. Highly efficient note taking, you know it's efficient because you ask yourself, okay, I've spent 20 minutes writing notes. By the end of the 20 minutes, have I retained the information and can I use and apply the information from recall? The answer should be yes. And that means that in the time spent studying, you achieve a lot of learning. And if you ask yourself the question, have I learned a lot after my studying and writing notes? And the answer is no. If you then say, no, I need to go back and read it again and revise it, then that is a clue, that's a cue, that's a red flag that tells you that your note-taking is not efficient. And this applies across the board. Any note-taking method that you use, very famous one, Cornell note-taking style, which kind of looks like this. If you know it, you know it. If you don't know it, don't bother learning it. It's honestly not very effective. It's extremely overhyped. In fact, there's even studies that are done on this that show that it's relatively not that great. It's basically just like a hyped up version of this thing that I told you before. Just more unnecessarily complicated. You know, Cornell note-taking style, after a certain amount of time, am I able to retain and apply all that knowledge? The answer is sort of, kind of, not really. That means that it's partially effective, but not as efficient as it needs to be. So this is just a checklist for yourself to know. So these final two are more just a checklist to make sure that you look at your notes and you think, Okay, is it maximizing the time that I'm using? Therefore, is it efficient? And is it really reflecting the order in which I thought it made sense, or did I end up getting sucked into the order that the textbook or the guidebook or whatever just dictated for me? So these are your guidelines for effective note -taking. I know there's a lot of information here. I understand that, but we will be coming back to this again and again and again to see whether it worked or not. And we'll see how mind maps actually fulfill all of these criteria very neatly. But first of all, let's examine some notes. And we can run it across these guidelines to see whether it's effective or not. And by the end of that activity, you'll have a really good understanding about looking at notes and understanding what type of note-taking works and what type of note-taking is honestly just a waste of time. 谢谢观看