Let's look at how the shoot step can work when it comes to unfamiliar text analysis. So we've mentioned that we are asking the same types of questions here, what is it, why is it important, how is it related to the techniques and we're doing much the same thing for a text response but we're just figuring out what is the point, what are the themes and we're relating that to the technique and again the order is the key, the order is the key. If you don' do it in this order, you're gonna be missing out on the main benefit here. So let us look at the shoot step. There is a couple of things. a couple of things that we can do to identify what the themes are. So what are the themes and why is it important? We can use the Twitter test and this is to help you get really critical analysis. Now this is an example taken from a previous Victoria State exam. However I've looked at the exams for IB, VCHSC, basically every single curriculum as well as curriculums in other countries in previous years and honestly it's all basically the same. You get a different article, you get a slightly different question, you get a slightly different image, but it's pretty much the same thing. It's the exact same skill. Literally exactly the same skill. So what you can do here is the Twitter test and the Twitter test is gonna allow you to develop the skill, okay, develop the skill. Now you don't wanna be doing the Twitter test in the exam. You wanna be good enough at this so that by the time you sit the exam, you are unconsciously competent. You don't wanna have any effort involved in this. You don't wanna be consciously thinking about doing this. You wanna have practiced this so many times before the exam so that when you do this, you can simply just do it. And what this is doing is critically allowing you to dissect the theme and the text to figure out what the themes are. So let's do this. The Twitter test says that there is like a character limit. If you've ever used Twitter, you know that there's a character limit. and I can't actually remember what the character limit is, but basically there's a character limit. And if there's a character limit, it means that you have to be really careful about what you put in there. So everything needs to be in there for a reason. It's like, you know, when you're trying to like, reach a word count, if there's like a minimum word count, it's like this essay has to be 2000 words, but you don't have anything to say. You like add random words in there that just you don't even need. This is like the opposite. It's like saying you need to write a super compelling essay, but you can only do it in 200 words and you're like, oh wow. So every single word in there needs to be like, this is exactly the word that I needed. So this is the Twitter test. We're saying, if we had a character limit, why is it that the author decided to have this sentence or phrase in there? What is the point? What are they trying to get across? What's their agenda? Why was that important to them? That's the first stage of answering the AIM Step questions. So let's do that for this. Let's start from the very beginning, which is actually the heading, a better, faster shopping experience. So what are we seeing here? We are seeing that they're saying better and they're saying faster. So what's the point here? Okay, the theme that I'm getting here, the theme is I'm getting something that's very positive, right? kind of like a happy thing, kind of like a good thing. So that's in my mind, the theme that we've got. We've got the idea of like good, we've got the idea of like happy, all right, cool. Good and happy. An open letter to our value, sorry, I missed the photo. What do we see here? What do we notice here? We notice a handshake, we notice a smiling person. What does that tell you? They could have picked any photo that tells you, okay, I'm getting the same vibes here, I'm getting good and happy, okay? good, happy, maybe like this handshake, I don't know, like there's like a feeling of like cooperation or something like that. Just an idea. All right, let's go to the first sentence. And again, I'm going very slowly right now. You're probably not gonna have this much time in the actual exam. But again, we're developing the skill. And I just wanna make it really clear what I'm doing. So I'm thinking out loud. An open letter to our valued customers, right? So look, look at this, it's like these trigger words, valued, open, you know? It's like, why didn't they just say a letter to customers? Right, remember, we are in a character limit here, we're doing the Twitter test. Every word matters. Why, okay, it's like, why did they use the word un? Well, because you need an article. Why did they use the word letter? Because that's what it is. Why did they use customers? that's kind of what the audience is. Why do they use the word valued? Ah, see, because they're trying to tell you something. They're trying to portray some kind of emotion. They want you to feel a certain way. An open letter, what does that make you feel? It makes you feel like, okay, valued. That's like, it's like very positive. It's again, that like cooperation, that happiness, this good thing, very positive, right? Like, I'm like very appreciated. This open letter, open, again, like very cooperative, like nothing to hide, very like honest, you could say, transparent. As you know, as you know, why would you put that? If you were tweeting something, would you write as you know? I mean, that's valuable characters there. As you know, as I know, that makes it seem like it's really obvious, okay? That makes it seem really obvious. Like it should be like common knowledge. Like it's almost like this is a given. That's how it makes you feel when you read the word as you know. Hayley's local store, why did they have that there? Well, because that's the name of the store, right? Is not your average grocery store. Is not your average grocery store. How does that make you feel? Is not your average, it's like unique. There's something unique. There's something different about this. We're a bit different, okay? Again, just reinforce that. We always put our customers first. So do you see we're starting to see some trends here? We're getting that cooperative, good, positive, appreciated vibe here. Let's go a little bit faster now, okay? You shouldn't go faster if you're just getting used to the skill, but let's just go faster for the sake of this example. We offer lots of healthy meals, mini specials, locally sourced food, and as you know, as you know again, we abolished plastic carry bags four years ago. Abolish is a pretty strong word to use here as well. You didn't just say got rid of, they didn't say removed. They used abolished. Long before the big stores. Okay, look, there's another phrase here. I mean, that's one, two, three, four, five words in a dash. That's precious characters and words that are being used up. Why do they have that there? Long before the big stores. That's some kind of comparison, right? It's like we're better than the big stores is kind of what they're telling us. How could we, let's think of a key word to represent that. Long before the big stores, okay? That's some kind of comparison, a comparison, like a sense of superiority, like we're better than them. Okay, so it's kind of like good, but like not even good, it's like better, okay, better. Why did we do these things? Why did we do these things? What are they putting that in there for? I wonder. We'll come back to that one. Let's put a little red thing here. Because you told us that was what you wanted and needed. Because you told us that was what you wanted. This whole sentence is like, Why are they putting that in there? I think it's so that they make us feel more appreciated and like they're more cooperative and they're more honest. I think that's what it does. From 1st of July, we will introduce another improvement to serve you better. Another improvement to serve you better. Look at this, look, bing, bing, bing. Another improvement, this is better, serve you better, you know, honest, cooperative. We are going cashless, exclamation mark here. All transactions will be done electronically. What will it change for the vast majority of customers? Nothing except less time spent in the store, right? So now that we're getting to some of the more, this you can say, you know, this is more detailed, right? You can tell this is like more informative. So now we're starting to see the themes that are coming through, all right? So let's just stay on the themes. If we were to go through this, you know, a bit more, let's just very quickly go through the rest, see if there's any new themes. We're talking about having no actual money in the store, you won't need to go rummaging through, your bags full of coins. You won't ever have to worry that you don't have the cash to cover your essential food supplies. Your card will ensure that you do. You know, this paragraph, why are they having this paragraph in here? What's the point of that? What's the point of this? What do they want us to feel? What do they want us to feel? That's the question that we're always asking ourselves. What do you want me to feel? How are you trying to emotionally manipulate me, you author? They want me to feel like this is a good thing. This is, these are obviously negative things. they're saying I don't have to do these negative things anymore. That's obviously positive. I'm in our store every day and I know that most of our customers don't pay cash for their goods now. Okay, this is a little bit different. This is like giving that sense of kind of like that localness, right? Oh, and there was like a locally sourced thing up here as well. So there's this idea of like local, kind of like relatable, which is, you know, maybe the handshake is also part of that, you know, local sort of relatable idea. More and more of you use an app on your mobile phone, you just type and you're done. Simple, simple, you know, that's a tweet little thing. Why is that there? Because it makes it seem like it's a good thing, right? Welcome to the 21st century. It's like, as if it's obvious, as it should be a given. Australians have embraced a digital economy, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay, a bunch of things, but basically, if you were to read through the whole thing, you would realize that these are basically the themes that we've got. Great, well done. We've done the first step, okay? We've done the first step. These are the themes that we've got. Why is that theme important? All right, so this is... What? Would you look at that? Would you look at that? Do you see that? This is a paid advertisement. A paid advertisement. Could it be that the person who is paying for an advertisement has an agenda behind what they're saying? Could it be that the person who wrote this article who works at the store wants to paint their store in a positive light, maybe there's a conspiracy going on. So why is it important? Why is it important for the store to represent themselves in a positive way? Well, you know, I don't think I need to explain that. But obviously, they're making a change here. They're making a change. They're going cashless. They're doing everything digitally. And they want that to be seen as a positive thing. They're trying to persuade you in a way. They're trying to emotionally manipulate you through the words and the writing that they are using. So that's the reason that's important. The reason that it's important is because this is the store. The store has an agenda. The agenda is to probably, you know, like make their brand look better. That's the agenda. Therefore, they are putting in all these themes that we've collected here. The third thing, how is it related to the techniques that are used? So now we need to go through and identify the techniques obviously. So I've already talked about these value words, things like valued, open. Let's find a few more value words so you know what I'm talking about. So I would say that the words like abolished is quite a strong word. We've got words like skimming through here, you know like simple, it's a weaker but like a value word. You know, you could even say the word embrace is quite a positive word. You know, if you think of like someone hugging you, embraced, we can see that you'll breeze through, you know, this type of thing. Okay, but then we've got negative value words as well. Rummaging is a negative value word. You know, even the word "worry" that's a negative value word. Positive value words are easier, safer, things like that. So we're looking for words that actually represent some kind of like positive, having a motion associated with it. So those are like value words. But then again, remember, there is an element of memorization and you should have memorized the list of different types of techniques that can be used. The list of techniques that can be used. So let's look for some of those techniques. So here's a few things that we can notice, right? We can notice that there's a repetition used up here of positive language, better and faster. Okay, there's a technique there. There is a technique, let's do the techniques in yellow. So there's technique here, repetition here. There's a technique of, you know, the value words that are used. We've got techniques of rhetorical question, why do we do these things? That's a rhetorical question. So how is that related? So how a rhetorical question, what is the purpose of a rhetorical question? You should have memorized that already. So you know what, why rhetorical questions are used. So rhetorical questions are used because they can make the reader feel more involved and think about it a little bit more and feel more personally related. They can make, they can emphasize the thing that comes after it. What's the thing that comes after it? Look at that. comes after it is a value statement that makes us feel like we are unique and valued and appreciated and that makes them feel relatable. So we can see that here there's a rhetorical question that's been used to emphasize on some of these themes. So we can go through this entire thing and we can identify all the techniques that we can figure out right. So look there's a statistic that's used is 70% of household spending. 70%. Statistics. Statistics are used in order to make something seem more tangible, more real, give something credibility. What are we giving credibility to? So now we need to look for what this is trying to give credibility to. A decade ago, nearly 70% of household spending was in cash. Now it's half of that, and most of that is on small purchases such as a cup of coffee. It's just much easier and safer for all of us not to carry wads of cash, now that's a negative word, wards of cash in our wallets given the recent pickpocketing in the area. Oh my god, look at that, so negative. So obviously they want this statistic to reinforce the idea that Australians have a braced digital economy and it's just negative to carry cash. So we have the technique of credibility using statistics associated with the theme that we are wanting to represent here, which was the idea of in this case the idea of this being just like a positive change as well as I guess there's another thing that we haven't written here which is the idea that it's oh I guess it's the idea that it's a norm you know Australians have already embraced it right which is kind of we already have that theme here which is that it's sort of like a given it's common knowledge kind of thing it's more obvious so we can go through that okay we can go through that and there's techniques that you can you can pick up you know Philip Lowe, Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, appeal to authority here we're using authority names why do we do that what theme does that relate to this value word what does that relate to blah blah blah things like that and then eventually we're going to get a list of techniques that... (phone buzzing)