(Video boyunca) those exact questions and I'm going to Google, read some Wikipedia articles, look at my teacher's notes, things like that, and I'm just gonna figure that out. I'm literally just answering those questions. And that's the shoot stage here. So for 1984, this is what we can get. The themes that we start with are the themes of classes, oppression, and fascism. So if you haven't read 1984, just follow along. You'll see the process anyway. Government brainwashing, militaristic supervision, and ignorance and rejection of the truth. So these are some recurring themes. And there are some other themes as well, but I wanted to keep this video still relatively concise in some way. So these are the main ones. So these are the main themes that are talked about in George Orwell's "1984." Now, what's the next step? I've identified the themes. The next step is thinking, why are those themes important? Why are the themes important? So when I look at why, I read a Wikipedia article on George Orwell's life, and I thought, I had this in my mind, I had these things in my mind, and I thought, what about George Orwell's life made him think that these things were important? Okay? So I had this in my mind, and I was reading the Wikipedia page thinking, what in his life made these things important? And I noticed a few things. He used to be a policeman, and I thought, I wonder if that had any influence on him understanding more about classes and oppression. He was very well traveled. He was poor, sought after experiences. And I think that probably gave him some insight into classes when he was traveling. I'm putting just key words here because I don't want to write literally like an entire Wikipedia paragraph. But if you go and read the article and you read the paragraph about him traveling, you see that he traveled to some interesting places and really threw himself into some very interesting experiences. So for example, one time apparently during Christmas, he like assaulted a police officer or something just so that he could spend Christmas in prison just so that he knew what the experience would feel like. I mean, that's a very strange behavior, honestly, but this is someone who obviously really values that experience and in a social setting, which kind of comes back to this idea of classes, class relationships. He was a soldier in World War II, and if you're not familiar, World War II, that's a whole Hitler Nazi thing. So government brainwashing, militaristic supervision. The youth in the Nazi reign, there were a lot of examples of how they would brainwash basically very young people, kids, children, and get the children to rat out on their parents. That was one of the ways that they would oppress and control the population. And that's actually something that happens in 1984 as well. That's an exact example of it. And now when we look at his background, we can see, oh, he was a soldier. He was very anti-fascist, in fact. If I had copied the whole paragraph, you'd see that he was very against fascism. He volunteered for pretty much every war that he could fight in his vicinity. And he's quoted to have being said that when he showed up to fight for one of these wars, he said that he's here to fight against fascism, is what he apparently said. He was a teacher. He was a teacher, and he had actually multiple of his early works rejected. And the reason that some of his early works were rejected is actually stated to a being that it was a bit too socially out there for the time for it to be acceptable. And I thought maybe that's something that he was a bit resentful of, and maybe that's the reason why he's kind of like, oh, the public isn't ready to accept the truth. They're ignorant. They're willfully ignorant and they reject the truth. So these are some of the reasons behind why George Orwell, I think, thought these themes were important. The next step is now thinking, what techniques did he use and how were they related to these themes. So now we see a combination of our groundwork coming through. We can see that one of the main protagonists, Winston, his life and personality ends up being in some ways quite similar to George Orwell's own life and personality, which we've been able to gleam from here. So in our essay, we could actually say things like that the influence of George Orwell's background is seen very clearly in the portrayal of the main protagonist, Winston, not only in the values, but also in the personality, which closely mirrors that of the author. That sounds like a great sentence to have, right? And if you're the examiner reading that, they're thinking, wow, this person really knows their stuff. Because you do, you legitimately know your stuff. And then you go into the themes. So, okay, we see the example of Julia, Winston's sort of girlfriend, who is really the manifestation of the consequences of what happens when you have these classes as well as government brainwashing. That's the consequence of it. So George Orwell is thinking this theme is so important of classes and government brainwashing. He created an entire character to portray the negative consequence of what it looks like if that were allowed to succeed. And that character is called Julia. So we've been able to discern that because we've started and we've thought about the themes deeply. We've thought about it even more deeply by trying to connect it to his background. And now we've realized how important each of these things really are in this person's life. And we're thinking there's no way someone who volunteered for that many wars and put his life at risk is going to not make government brainwashing and militaristic supervision a massive part. And lo and behold, they actually have characters that manifest the very theme. So in our essay, we can say that 1984 perfectly exemplifies the consequences of government brainwashing in classes through the relatable character of Julia, a theme that George Orwell clearly wanted to represent due to his incredibly strong alignment from his own personal background, something along those lines. And again, if you get thrown curveball questions asking about any of these themes, because we know where those themes actually came from, we have a lot more flexibility with actually modifying and playing around with these, we can actually theorize about which one might have been more important than other ones. And that creates a lot more nuanced discussion. And because you're a lot more free in thinking about it, because you know where it came from, it means that the essays that you write are a lot easier and the techniques make a lot more sense. So we have Julia here, we've got O'Brien. O'Brien was a character who was a government representative and he represented government brainwashing and this militaristic supervision. O'Brien also manifested this other thing, which was called double speak. And double speak and also this other thing called double think was a very famous 1984 concept that you can say one thing but mean another thing. And you can think one thing and believe something else entirely. And it's actually become so famous that it's actually sometimes used in just normal English language now. So this double think, I mean, he gave an entire new word to represent this concept. He clearly thought this was important. because this is the direct representation of willful ignorance of truth. He has junior spies, again, from his Nazi influence about militaristic supervision. So there's multiple of these examples and techniques that normally you would just go through and memorize and be like, okay, this represents this and this, this represents this and this, this represents this and this, this represents, and then when the essay is asking you to talk about it in a very fluid way that connects it all together, that's when we struggle. And really, are we surprised that we are struggling when we do it this way, when we started from memorizing the techniques and examples and working our way back to connecting to the themes? No, because it becomes very, very messy. But if we know where it comes from and we know where that comes from, then it's much more straightforward and we are much more fluid and flexible with what we're actually able to do with this information. And that's why I say the order is so important. Just because you do one thing, just because you are connecting techniques to themes, it doesn't mean that you're doing the same thing. What's important here is we start with the themes, then we go to the reason why it's important, and then we connect the whole thing together with techniques that exemplify it. And that order is what allows us to create something like this. And your actual mind map for your full text is going to be bigger than this. Simply because this is not a comprehensive of the entire book, but it's the main ideas. And there's a lot more examples and techniques as well. But it's in a way, it doesn't get any harder even though there's more stuff there because the number of themes aren't increasing exponentially it's simply there, each theme has a couple more examples which becomes really easy to learn because obviously the leaves will be where the branches led to.