So we've covered the guidelines that make effective note-taking, and this is again based on all the evidence and research on note-taking, okay? So you might think that it's not applicable for you, but look, as mentioned at the beginning, if you're a normal human being with a brain like 99.999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999 We're not talking about extremely specific styles or anything like that. As I said, learning styles is a myth anyway. We're just talking about the foundations. These are true for every single student I have ever worked with, okay? No exceptions, no exceptions. So let's actually have a look at some notes and evaluate them so that we can start training our eye to be like the eye of an expert, is able to analyze notes and see, are they good, are they bad? And if they're good, why are they good? And how can we use that as part of our own note-taking? And if they're bad, why are they bad? So let's start with a few of these notes. So these are some notes that I've pulled up. And they're notes that students have done. Some of these notes, even, you know, people will sell them, which I don't know about the ethics behind that, but anyway, the first note here, this one. All right, so let's see. Have they managed to represent this visually? Okay, so from a visual point of view, there's a diagram here, but the diagram is very scientifically accurate, right? And it's not very abstract. And because it's not as abstract, it's not actually using the other half of our brain, the other hemisphere, which means it's better than just trying to describe this process in words. However, it is still not as good as trying to represent this a little bit more abstractly, maybe emphasizing the parts that are really important. So if I were to look at this, right, we've got this idea that, you know, we've got DNA here. Okay. And then we're inserting this gene into the middle. And we've got the idea that it's being cut. This segment is being cut. It says-- I'm not sure if you can read this, but it says cleavage here. So if I were to draw that out, I might have something like just saying-- So I might do something that looks more like this. Okay, something that's more like this. Now, basically what I'm doing is I'm making the important parts, so in this case the cleavage, in this case the new gene being edited. I'm emphasizing this a little bit more. And because I'm emphasizing it a bit more, my brain is going to find that a bit more memorable than if it were to look very, very similar. It's kind of like if you have, you know, a bunch of, you know, 66666664, 6. You know, it's like, okay, sure, I could remember that. But if the 4 is like red and like massive, okay, that's just, it just looks clearly more memorable. And so when you close your eyes and try to imagine this, this is much more memorable than the previous one. And it's just very simply a use of slightly, slightly more abstract representation, okay? So the visual on this, I'm gonna give this, I'm gonna give this a pretty low mark. I'm gonna overall give it a no, because even though there was this one diagram, it's actually the only one. Everything else here is done just purely with words, and it is quite wordy here, right? So it says, "CRISPR is an efficient and inexpensive tech "for precise genome editing, "which is in contrast to older techs that added DNA segments to genomes but at unpredictable locations. So this entire sentence could be represented differently. Okay, so let me try to do that here. 私はあなたを愛して います。 この場所は、日本の伝統的な伝統的なお店です。 この場所は、日本の文化 [Ողթանը գնում է] Okay, so we could do something like this, where I'm saying CRISPR is used for gene editing, it's time efficient and it's cost effective, versus old tech, and I've done the font of old a little bit more stylized, so it's just a bit more memorable, where it's adding genes in random and unpredictable places. So you can see that this really encapsulates the concept of that that entire sentence. But if you look at the two, right, you can clearly see that this big long sentence here is quite dense looking. It looks just like every other thing on this page. It's not as memorable. Whereas you are more likely to be able to remember this. And even if you look at this and think, you know, that doesn't look that memorable. Remember, it's less memorable for you because you're not the one that thought of how to draw it, remember? So the notes become more memorable when you actually have to process the information and think, how can I represent this? How can I represent it visually? How can I represent it abstractly? So you've got three levels of learning that are going through in your brain to help process it and make it more memorable and help figure out everything and how it works. And then on top of that, we're also processing the questions of, What is it? Why is it important? And how does it relate? Which we're not doing with this particular example here. But because I was the one that did the processing to figure out that this is a way that makes sense for me, when I look at this, it makes a lot of sense. So if you were to think about it and you were to represent it a certain way, it would seem more memorable for you, even if it was the exact same drawing, because you were the one that figured out that this is a way that you could express it. So trying to figure out how to draw it is actually learning in itself, right? So again, learning happens in our brain. Studying is the act that we're doing, but we really want to make sure we're learning inside our brain. So just because you're sitting there thinking doesn't mean that you're not actually learning, just like how sitting there reading or sitting there writing doesn't actually mean that you're learning. So yeah, sitting and thinking about things for a while can actually be good, because it means that you're probably more likely to learn it at a more efficient level. So is this visual? I'm going to say generally speaking, no. All right. What about is it processed? Well, it's summarized. It's clearly summarized, and there are key questions that are here. So I'm going to say that it is relatively processed. OK. So I'm going to give that one a tick. It's processed. Is it relational? Does it seem to focus on the relationships between ideas or does it seem to focus on purely just the information? There's a little bit of emphasis on relationships, probably not even deliberately, through these questions here, which is basically an AIM step. So that's good, but there isn't really any key effort to try to create relationships very meaningfully here. And you can kind of tell, right? Like when you just look at this, do you get the feeling that you know how all the things are related with each other. It's pretty hard to make out. And you'd have to really read through the entire thing in a lot of depth to figure out how it's related. Like, you'd actually have to read it and then think to yourself, how is it related and why is it important? Like while you're reading in order to figure out the relationships between it. And this is already meant to be something that has already been processed in that way. So if you have to read it and do the whole process again to make sense of it, that's just not efficient, right? We should be demonstrating those relationships. So the person that made these notes might have very good understanding about how the relationships between them, but it's not represented in the notes. So that's not as efficient, it wastes time. And to be perfectly honest, I've worked with a lot of students and this person that made these notes probably doesn't understand the relationships as well as some people that would have spent the time and effort to prioritize the relationship building in their notes. Just because if it's something that you have to physically write down, if you have to physically represent relationships in your notes, it just forces you to think about them much more clearly. Rather than it being implicit, it makes it explicit. And these relationships, even if the person has it in their mind, it's not explicit. So I'm gonna give that a no. And remember, again, this is not just my criteria. This is what the research says and also what I know from my experience working with students. These are the guidelines that truly create more efficient notes. Okay, the next part is the if. Is it freehand? Well, no. And that probably explains partly why there are so many words that are written because it's easy to type all of this stuff. a low barrier so it doesn't force you to really think about stuff to save time and it doesn't allow you to express things very visually. So it's rare to see notes that are types that are also good quality. Is it reflective of this person's studying process? Honestly, it probably is reflective of their studying process, but their studying process seems to be relatively linear. So that's kind of like, I'm going to give that a neutral, and that it is reflective, but it's not really reflecting a good process. And is it efficient? Well, partly yes, in that it was paraphrased, but also partly no, in that the time it took to write this sentence probably is not the time it took to learn this. It was additional time on top of it, additional time. So a lot of the sentences that are written here, time was probably spent writing this, which was purely just to get it on paper, and it didn't actually help them understand it. The note-taking process didn't help them understand it in a huge way. Certainly, I don't think, on a minute-by-minute basis. There will have been minutes during the process of writing this where they were not actually learning anything, and they were purely just documenting. So therefore, I'm going to say that this is, it's relatively summarized, so it's not a lot of time wasted, but overall not the huge level of efficiency. Okay, let's have a look at another one. This is one on health and human development. This whole series of notes is actually 17 pages of just definitions. So, okay, well, look, is it visual? No. And you might be thinking, how do you do definitions visually? OK, well, here's the thing is that-- actually, let me just do the whole thing first, and then I'll explain. OK, so is it visual? No. Is it processed? Not much, but I mean, it's just a definition, so it's not as much to process. Is it relational? Definitely not. Is it freehand? It's not. Is it reflecting their learning process? Well, I don't think there's even a learning process here to reflect, because it's literally just a list of definitions. I doubt they actually really learned anything by writing this. Is it efficient? No. So here's the thing. They spent all this time writing these definitions. So by the time they finished writing this 17-page document, do you think the author had memorized everything on this page? Probably not, so that's not efficient, okay? What was it really reflecting? It reflected the author writing 17 pages of definitions. What else did it reflect? It reflected that they didn't really think about it other than just making a list of definitions. Great. So they're kind of just creating something for future reference. But the thing is, they would have gotten these definitions from somewhere anyway. So there's actually a more efficient way of doing this that allows you to memorize this more. We're gonna cover that later on. A way to memorize definitions much more easily without doing this type of thing. You know, flashcards is our way, and it is effective when used the right way. It's just that most people don't use them the right way. But this is even worse, you know, this is not even flashcards done the wrong way. This is just like things that should be in flashcards in notes, but the notes are not even done the right way. Okay? You could still make them visual if you wanted to, but if the purpose was purely to get definitions, then in a way, this is not as, it's not as relevant. But the main thing is that it's very time consuming and it doesn't produce a lot of learning. So it's kind of like, why did you do it in the first place? Because there are actually alternatives. There are alternatives instead of doing this that are much more effective. So given that there are, if there are no alternatives, it's like fine, it's a necessary evil, but there are alternatives. There are legitimate alternatives that would have made this easier. So that's why I'm gonna say that that's not very good. All right, let's look at this. This is notes that someone's written on psychology. Alright, we should be able to speed up a little bit. Is this visual? No. Could it be? Definitely. I mean, look, there's so many sentences here, right? Primary appraisal, evaluate nature of incoming stressor. Stressor, eyeball, to signify evaluation, okay? Primary appraisal. Based on that, benign positive. Neutral or positive will not cause stress. Irrelevant. Not presenting issue or worry will not cause stress. So, I'll do a shrug guy here. No problem. No stress. And then stressful. Worry or force individual to respond is a stressor. Harm/loss. Already cause damage for individual. Threat. Could cause damage in future. challenge, good opportunity for change or growth. So here it's forcing a response. Okay, so I'm gonna draw a speech bubble here, you know, to represent that they need to like reply or respond. And then we're basically saying that we've got harm or loss, okay, and then this is something that has already caused damage. So I'm going to draw a broken something here. Or we've got a threat. Could cause damage in the future. OK. I'm going to draw a-- like a telescope sort of thing. (birds chirping) Maybe a tea for time on the side of this. And then what's the other one? Challenge. I'm gonna draw like a concentrating face that is surrounded by these green things, which becomes a smiley face. Great. So that, this thing here, I've represented this paragraph, this chunk, like this. And again, I've managed to increase my learning because I've used a part of my brain that wasn't involved before. I've had to process it more deeply. I've had to think about this relationship here. I've had to think about different ways that this would make sense. And while doing that, I have basically memorized this entire thing. And I'm pretty sure I'm not gonna forget this anymore because I've just had to think about it to the point where I need to know how to represent this. And I can also remember the shape of the information. So this way I've done it is actually relational as well. You can see the relationship between threat versus benign positive, 'cause you carry it along this chain. You can see that. You can see that relevant, benign positive, and stressful are three different components of that. and within stress you have three different components. Do you get that sense immediately here? You get that there are three things here, but here, is that clear? Honestly, it's not very clear that there are three things within this. And also, even though it's like bullet point like this, is it as clear as actually having it represented with the relationships like this? Okay, and then when I do secondary appraisal, I might even have that next to it on here and actually create links between them, so I'd have even more connections going forward, okay? So compared to that, look, it's not visual. Is it processed? This, it honestly doesn't even look very processed. It looks like it's been summarized a little bit. So I'm gonna give that a neutral for process. It's not processed a lot. Is it relational? No, we already said that. Is it freehand? No. Is it reflective of their learning? Well, it's very linear. So, you know, again, that's just linear, which is not good. Is it efficient? Definitely not, because you can tell, again, the person that finished writing this notes, by the end of it, will they have a 90% retention of everything they've written down? Probably not. I mean, just look at how boring and monotonous this looks. Okay, it doesn't look like real learning. This looks like boring studying, not like real learning, 'cause real learning, inside your own head, you know, the human brain tends to think more like in these mind maps. Right, let's go through a few more. Let's go through a few more. Okay, these are just some that I found off You know these are stuff that you'd see on hashtag study gram You know people say wow your notes look so pretty But are they actually effective because the thing is a lot of those study grammars are not Actually particularly high achievers. So okay is it visual to a certain extent yep Although having said that you know that you still got these sentences here, which probably they could be represented differently anyway But we'll give that an okay. You know we'll give that a half pass Is it processed? It looks like it's being processed. Yep. Is it relational? No. So actually in the biggest most important aspect of learning it fails because it's not relational. It doesn't represent relationships. Is it freehand? Yes, it is. Good. Is it reflective of the learning process? Somewhat it seems like but the learning process doesn't seem to be very relational. It seems to be quite linear so that's not good. Is it efficient? Partly in that it is at least relatively processed, but because of the fact that they are still writing all of these sorts of things, especially this big list here, you can guarantee that the person did not memorize this entire list purely by writing the notes, which means that time spent to write this note did not produce meaningful learning, therefore it is not efficient. Because, remember, there are alternatives, there are alternative ways of doing that. If you were to write these notes more relationally and more visually, they would by themselves become more easily retained. So that would be more efficient to do it that way. Okay, but there are other techniques I will teach you. Okay, don't worry. These big lists, I will teach you other techniques eventually to memorize these very big long lists much more easily. Same thing here. Okay, very, very similar, except the visualness is very bad. There's basically no visualness in this at all, really, right? It's all just words. I mean, if I were to do this, do you feel like you have an understanding of what's going on in these notes? No, it's just, it's hard to really make out what it is. You have to read through every single line in order to understand what's happening. As opposed to even what I roughly did over here, where at a glance, you generally get a shape of the idea. Even if you don't know exactly what's going on, you can see at least the relationships, which is, remember, the most important part of all learning. So visual, no. Processed, somewhat. Relational, big no. Is it freehand? Yes. Is it reflective of their learning journey and the way that they have been learning and the way that it makes sense in their mind? Partly. Partly. And the-- is it efficient? Okay, again, not really because all the time, again, by the time they finish writing this paragraph, have they memorized it? By the time they finish these notes, have they retained all of this? Probably not. Why not? Because their relationships weren't there. And you might be thinking, okay, what's the point of having a separate thing, efficiency, an E, at the end of this? If after every time I'm just gonna say, it's not efficient because it's not relational. Well, that's because when we start looking at some notes, we'll see that it is relational, Yet it might still not be as efficient as it could be. Okay, we'll get to that when we look at mind maps more. So let's have a look at this. This is a mind map, right? Which is good for a lot of reasons. Is it visual? No. It doesn't really represent things abstractly. There's a lot of writing on this, lots of text. So I need to go and read through all of this to figure it out. Is it processed? I think yes, it is quite processed. This person has thought, "Where can I arrange this material in space?" Okay, so they've thought spatial awareness, they have thought about that, they've thought about how do I relate this information, they've thought about that and connect it together, how do I simplify the information, they've thought about that. So they've actually thought about what they're writing and they've really thought about the information and tried to make it their own before putting it on paper. That's much better. Is it relational? Yes, it is relational. So we can see there are relationships along here. We can see this kind of relationship. So I could draw almost a flow that goes like this. And going like that. So you can see this general flow of information. Having said that, the relationships can be improved because it's not very clear. It's not as clear as it should be. And we'll see some better examples of where it's clearer later on. However, okay so and it's a free hand, yes it is. Is it reflective of the learning process? It is because you know this is a different order. So there's some elements of order control because they figured out how to put it in on pay. So you don't know, they might have learned this first, they might have learned this first, they might have learned this first. You're not sure what they learned first but it does seem to follow some kind of logic, right? seem to reflect the way that they have learned it. Is it efficient? In this case, it is no, right? So do you see it's because there's a lot of this writing and because the relationships are not strong enough. The relationships aren't the priority here. The priority is still the information. How do we know the priority is still the information? 'Cause these arrows are tiny. The arrows are tiny. The arrows almost look like they would just fit in in retrospect. It doesn't look like the arrows took priority. What I've done in red over the top is what it would look like if the arrows took priority. So you can see how different it would be. The information itself should be dodging the arrows, not the other way around. This tells me that they think this block of text is more important than the arrows connecting them. But we know from neuroscience that that's not the case. Information only has meaning because of its relationship to other information. Thomas Hobbes is only relevant in relation to John Locke, And it's only relevant in its relationship to English philosophers and their influence on each other. So relationships is really where the key is. Those relationships haven't been emphasized as much as they should have been, and there's still too much writing and too many words, therefore not efficient. Let's look at this. Visual, no. Processed, doesn't look like it, really. It looks like they've just copied stuff down. Is it relational? No. Is it freehand? No. Is it reflective of their learning process? Well, if their learning process is, again, seems very linear, so that's really a no. Is it efficient? Definitely not, because you just know. You know, okay? You don't even need to know the person. You know that the person who wrote this, by the time they finish these notes, and you close this book, and you ask them, and you quiz them on this stuff, you know that they're not gonna get 90% and above, right? You know that. You can just tell, because clearly there's no relationship priority that's been created here. All right? Now, here's another way of writing notes that you might be familiar with, right? This is very much so just scribbling. This person is not intending to read these notes again. They're just writing because they want to activate the writing part of their brain in order to increase their learning. Is that effective? The answer is yes, it is effective. However, there are actually alternatives to doing this, which are more effective. So once we learn how to do the mind map correctly with the right technique, which by the way, most people don't do well. Most, most people do not do the mind map well. Once you learn how to do it correctly, you'll realize that actually you can do a mind map very fast, very simply. That provides you all the benefit of activating the writing aspect of your brain, plus activating a relational aspect of your brain, plus activating a visual aspect of your brain, plus forcing you to focus your learning on the relationships instead of the information. So it's just superior in every way. So this one, we're not even gonna categorize based on our VP referee. We're just gonna say that this is very common. It does kind of work, but there are a lot more efficient alternatives that we can use. So I used to do this type of thing a lot. I don't do this at all anymore. So all of these notes are not great. There's a lot of room to be improved. And it's-- the notes tell you a lot, you know? The way that I think about it, notes are a window into the person's brain when they're studying. It tells me exactly how they think about studying. It tells me what they think about learning. So someone who doesn't even understand that relationships are the most important part of learning, they're producing notes that will look like this. They produce notes that look like this, and they produce notes that look like this and like this. That tells me that they don't have even the basic understanding of good study principles and study efficiency. They don't have a basic understanding of learning psychology. They don't have a basic understanding of learning neuroscience because they are just doing what everyone else is doing. They are very much so on the bandwagon. They are very much so in a spiral where they're probably spending lots of time studying just to learn this. And it's just all time that's being wasted. So these are not great notes. And if a student came up to me with notes like this, I would say, "Okay, it's very clear what needs to be worked on first, which is understanding that relationships is the core of learning." So let's have a look at mind maps and how we can use mind maps to be an alternative way of writing notes.