Ascent 2 neglect before moving on is usually that they're getting a little bit slack when it comes to one of the first two. Either COBS is not being done consistently or frequently or there are areas that were carried on from previously that weren't worked on. Essentially the same areas that we talked about in the previous checkpoint especially to do with reflection being too brief, too superficial, abstractions being too theoretical. If you need to remind yourself of that remember to just check out the checkpoint video at the end of technique training but at this point we really need to make sure our cobes is to a very very high level otherwise it's not going to be easy at all to make any progress in a motivating or remotely quick way just because finding out why you may have certain issues with your studying or retention or results at this point becomes very very fine. The second thing is all the stuff that was taught in fundamentals for example spaced interleaved retrieval we can be so bogged down and so focused on just getting better encoding technique that we may forget that. So those are things that we need to check off. If we haven't checked off on that then this is a good time to consolidate, stabilize that system before moving on. The encoding related techniques in terms of aim and shoot, the common issues here are not being able to do importance-based chunking properly and number two, not really using our order control, not really having good level of flow and directionality and not really setting that baseline overall very clean core backbone that's formed from the major chunks. So that might look like having concepts that are all related to each other with a few chunks here and there but those chunks are not really related to each other very smoothly or it could be issues like spider webbing or water falling that are occurring as a result of the lack of chunking by importance. So let's have a look at a few, again have your notes out and we'll go through to see if these people that we're gonna look at are ready to move on and you can evaluate your own work as well. And so this is the first one that we're gonna start with. You can see that it's busy, there's lots going on here. The good thing is that this person is trying to study a lot of information in one go. This is like, I think this is like a whole, like entire semester's worth of a particular topic or you know at least at least a few weeks so it's it's very detailed and that's kind of unavoidable but what we want to notice is that despite the fact that there is a lot of detail going on here we can still make out that there is a core layer of logic here we can still make out the main important relationships at this point the idea of doing nonlinear relational note-taking that should be very very straightforward so we're really focusing on making sure We've got good chunking, right? Very big good chunks, clear relationships between the main chunks, clear main concepts that are spread out there. This is obviously representing something in the shape of an arrow. So we've got a very clear overall structure and when we get into the smaller details, yes, it's a little harder to keep track of, but that's an inevitable part of it. At a certain point it's going to be very, very detailed, especially if there's this much information on the page. But if we do go in And we zoom in a little bit. We'll see that actually we're maintaining good chunking structure throughout If you are familiar with the topic and you think about how they have divided this you'll see that it is very logical They've done good. It's very importance based At every point that the chunking has been done the chunking has been done in an importance based way We can still improve on a few areas for example We can work on making more intuitive chunking, but this is definitely something that we'd work on through a scent three So if this is what we're at at the end of a scent - then that's very very good The main thing here is that the way it's being chunked the way it's been arranged It's not just the same way that it's always taught you can see that there is rearrangement. There is a good flow There's good laterality of connections all throughout. There's no spider webbing. There's no water falling the layers are super clear and the chunks are importance-based. And we'll see some examples that are not quite like that so you get a comparison. Let's have a look at this one. Here we've got some very, very basic big chunks that have been formed, which is good. And you can tell that there is, you know, this is another chunk here, but you can see that it doesn't look like it's got much importance-based chunking going on. The main things that we're seeing are these single node chains, single node chains, and these single node chains, remember, what it usually indicates is that the chunking has been done through through just process or information in that this leads to this, which leads to this, which leads to this, rather than thinking, well, why is that important in the first place? Because if we think about it that way, the chunks that we form naturally tend to be quite different. They tend to be more intuitive and more logical. And so when you look at this, Yes, you can kind of see an overall flow But it's actually hard to tell what's going on with the ideas You know there are sort of concepts that are here that obviously are related to certain things But then you know this goes towards this but that comes from this thing which comes from this thing But then this just came out of nowhere So you can see that overall the flow and directionality is actually not quite there And so the main issue here is that this person probably in their aim step Didn't go and ask the question of why it was important deeply enough They may have used reverse causality to say that something was important Just because of the fact that it has a particular function that they memorized for example. They may have looked at the word Precipitation and for example they may have thought well why is precipitation important and they may have thought well It's important because that's one of the things that happens to assault So that would be illogical because what you wouldn't have known that until you just memorized that anyway And so if you just happen to forget that memorized point you just have nothing to hold on to that would be Not truly important space chunking And so that's where all of the issues are coming from the single node chaining the sort of lack of clear chunk the lack of a clear backbone Lots of just individual issues between the concepts, but no real good chunking there That's all gonna be due to the aim step and not going deep enough with asking. Why is it important? They're almost there, but there's that additional step that needs to be taken. This is one that's done by the exact same student, and you can see exactly the same issues really is that there's no single node chaining here. However, we do see that it's quite hard to follow the main chunks. So for example, we have basic chunk here, and then something happens, and then we've got what appears to be these now four major sub chunks that kind of appeared from here but it's a little bit hard to see what the main backbone of the information is. Outside of just this immediate diversion the backbone is a little bit less clear. So again this can be better with a little bit more importance-based chunking but objectively it's better than the previous one for sure and that may be that technique errors that we were able would see in the previous topic. This topic, we may not be able to see that in if the topic was taught in a way that makes it easier to do the chunking. And obviously we don't want to have our learning ability dependent on the quality of the teaching that we received. We wanna be independently in control of that and have consistently good levels. So if I were to only look at this, I would say, yep, we're nearly at a level where we can move to Ascent 3. However, when combined with the previous one, we're seeing technique inconsistency. Now let's have a look at this one. Here we get to see the questions that are being used as well. We've got a list of keywords that are here. We've got the list of questions that are used. If we look at the questions, they're all very open, very broad, and it's normal for the questions themselves that you're asking to be quite boring. And it's normal because you can ask the same question to a different thing. And because it's a different concept, the answer is different, and the thinking behind it is different. We can ask the exact same, Why is bonding important? Isomerism? Why is reactivity important? And every time we ask that exact same question, the ideas and the relationships we get are different because the nature of the topic is different. By asking these very broad open questions, the idea here is that we can identify lots of relationships between these ideas. Well bonding is important because it's related to this and this and this and it influences this and this and this and it's involved in this process here. So we think about that and then we think about another concept and we see, oh okay, so these two things are important for the same reason, let's put that into a chunk and that's how a chunking forms. So these are all very good open questions. There are some more questions down here as well and again these are good questions. You know this "what is hybridization?" This is probably one that we don't need because it's impossible not to answer this next question "why is hybridization important?" We can't answer that without answering this first one anyway so we can save some time by getting rid of that but it's really one of the only what-based questions that's in the entire thing and it looks like based on that they've to create some basic chunking of it. They've experimented with a little bit of their relationships here. And this is the correct way to offload cognitively if you need to. Something like this to track the relationships. We definitely don't wanna be going to linear leave writing the answers to these questions, which completely defeats the purpose of the inquiry. And obviously you can see the logic layer here that's been formed from their efforts, very clear overall flow, very clear chunking that's going on. And they haven't added to this yet in terms of the concepts and all, but you can see that the framing is very strong. So if you can do this in your logic layer, then it's likely that you're gonna be able to move on very smoothly. And what we can see is that when they did add the concepts on it retains that overall clean look to it. There are a couple of things that we can improve, and yes, it's still lacking detail 'cause it's only the concepts layer, but I suspect that everything that continues to be framed on here will continue to be fairly well organized. And you can see how much easier it is to show relationships when our overall framing is correct. And this step that we just showed before, that is probably the biggest mistake, the biggest limitation for most students is not really spending enough time to get that logic layer super clean, not asking those questions that are truly importance-based and only thinking about just individual relationships, not really placing the priority on chunking it in the way that is the most intuitive. And that's the thing that we need to get before we move to Ascent 3, where we can then really clean up the technique and fully consolidate and get a lot of experience across the board. So for this person, I'd say I'm happy for them to move to a Scent 3, and I presume that when they put the additional details in, it's gonna fill in fairly nicely. Now let's have a look at this. We have the list of keywords that's already been chunked. Now we don't actually have the questions that this person used to do the chunking, but we can evaluate whether it's importance-based chunking by looking at the headings. We start in this way, DNA manipulation, and what else is at that same level? We've got disease control. So this topic has been split into disease control and DNA manipulation. And then we say under DNA manipulation, we have GMOs, bacterial transformation, fragments of DNA. And those are the three main chunks. So this topic of DNA manipulation has been split into GMOs versus bacterial transformation versus fragments of DNA. And we ask ourselves, does that make sense? Is that fairly intuitive? And it's a little bit on the fence. It could be logical, it could be intuitive, but we could maybe relabel them to be a little bit more intuitive. Instead of saying GMOs, bacterial transformation, fragments of DNA, we might split it into examples versus mechanism, what versus how. So using these more simple language allows us to understand the logic a little bit more cleanly, and it allows us to really challenge chunks that we have formed are importance-based. If you do correct importance-based chunking, it should be fairly straightforward to relabel your chunk as something that is a little bit simpler in its terminology usage. But in this case, it could be acceptable. In the GMOs, they've divided them into transgenic versus added/lost genes compared to examples and implications. Does that make sense? Yep, it could fairly make sense. And we can go through this entire thing and just ask ourselves that question, does it make sense to divide it into these chunks. And if it feels logical, if it does feel like that reflects the importance of each of the sub chunks, then as a general rule of thumb, not always, but generally speaking, it means our importance-based chunking is fairly good. But if it looks like underneath the chunk, there's no way we could have thought that these were the relevant chunks unless we had already learned it before and memorized it. And that probably means that we can make our chunking a little bit better. Right, so that's the thing to look out for. Do these chunks look like things I would need to just go and memorize or do they feel intuitive enough that even if I were to forget I might be able to even just figure it out by thinking about it and that's a really good good test to see if your aim step is really really ironed in. So let's have a look at the actual work that this created. It's a again a big topic so there's lots going on and it does look a little bit messy. What we can see is that in the middle we've got a relatively clean you know layer of logic here, we can see those two main chunks expressed very, very clearly. You know, even though there's a lot going on, our eye is pretty much drawn here. And we can see that there is two main chunks that are going into this, right, disease control, classifying diseases and population versus infection, right. So that might, that might work. Although, potentially, there's another way it could be chunked. Like, for example, I guess, classifying diseases in the population and infection, and infection is a type of disease in a population maybe, or if this is talking about maybe just the science behind how the infection actually works, the physiology, then we may wanna change this label to something else to make it a bit more intuitive and reflect the chunk more accurately. We've got nice use of visuals. It's obviously very nonlinear. There's obviously lots of relationships and there's elements of chunking that's being done well here and there. The part that's really holding this person back is that when we get into the concepts layers, It starts getting a lot harder to follow. Like all of the stuff in this kind of orangey, salmon-y color, it's a lot harder to see what's going on. And so what probably this means is that they had that importance-based chunking for these main chunks to figure out the main components. However, when they got to the concepts, they may have been too focused on just identifying individual relationships, and they weren't focusing enough on how can I chunk this even more to an additional level of simplicity? Is that something that needs to hold someone back to Ascent 3, not necessarily. So if this person wanted to move to Ascent 3, I'd say fine, but take it slowly and really focus on making sure that your chunking is there all the way to the edges. We want to chunk everything as much as possible, as simply as possible. We always want to think about how we can simplify the picture. If there's another way that we can arrange it and that constant back and forth thinking, could this work or could this work? That is something that we have to be really, really familiar with by the end of Ascent 2 and we can continue work on refining it in Ascent 3. For this person it's a little on the fence, it's pretty good but there's definitely some big things that we can work on. We could work on it in Ascent 3 or we could work on it partially in Ascent 2 before moving on. Either would be fine depending on what this student wanted to do. Let's have a look now at this piece of work. We can see below that there is this chunked list and let's apply the exact same check as before. So why don't you have a look at this and ask yourself do you feel like this way of chunking makes sense? Is it relatively intuitive or does it feel like something that I would just really have to memorize and remember what we want is we want to be able to look at a chunk or the sub chunks beneath it and say okay this division of the topic feels really logical. So have a quick read through that even if you know nothing about the topic you'll probably be able to at least make a guess. If we go through it this is what it seems, allocation of resources, max number of resources, fix prices, improve productivity. So there's one thing that I would probably do is chunk these together, allocation of resources and max number of resources. That really just seems like two different sub chunks under resources. That's one area where I do additional chunking under allocation of resources. They have divided that to scarcity, inequality and when it goes wrong. That However, I might say that inequality is an example of when it goes wrong. In which case, we might want to call it when it goes wrong in terms of acute versus chronic, or like short-term versus long-term, potentially, if we wanted to represent this. Under max number of resources, production possibility frontier versus opportunity cost. So production versus opportunity cost. Okay, that might make sense. I don't have great domain knowledge about that. Affects prices, inflation versus supply versus demand. I mean, that feels pretty logical. So overall, is there importance-based chunking? Generally, it seems like yes, but we might be able to get a simpler level of chunking, and that's perfectly fine, 'cause we've got a Synth3 that we can work on that. And as you can see here, we've got a relatively good backbone, there's good flow, there's good laterality of relationships, there's no water falling, there's no spider webbing. You know, obviously the non-verb, non-linear, not too wordy, good use of visuals. There may be a lack of detail. I might think that there's a little bit more detail that we need on this for it to be fully comprehensive, but for what is there at least, it's looking pretty good. Again, maybe when we get into the concepts layer, it's a little bit harder to see what's going on. It's a little harder to track that, and I can imagine if there's more information on this, it would get even harder to sort of make out what's going on, but, you know, for the scale and for the amount of information it's looking fairly clean and you can see that here in terms of max number of resources resource allocation you can imagine that this could have belonged under the same chunk and this relationship still would have made sense but for this person they would be able to move on to a scent - how about this one what do we think about this I'll give you a few seconds to have a look through this and pause the video and think can this person move on looking through all the things on that checkpoint. For this person we do see that there is a basic logic layer in the middle that's formed but we can see it's very hard to see what's going on outside of that and it's a little unclear in terms of where the chunks are and how the chunks were formed. If you zoom in a little and bother to check out exactly what chunks were actually even used it's not convincing that it was actually importance-based chunking. It sort of just seems like this is the headings that were in underneath that chapter heading maybe, and this is what they just decided to chuck underneath it. So for this person, I'd really wanna see their aim step. I'd really wanna see their keywords list and their aim step, and really see, are they asking the right questions? If they are asking the right questions, then it means that they're not thinking about the questions deeply enough, and they're not using that to see how they can simplify and group it based on importance. And this particular student, I know I've checked their work again recently, and they have improved massively. Their technique is extremely, extremely consistent. They're much further through the course now. So they've definitely worked on and improved that. This is the same student sending through something for what looks like biology. And you can see the exact same thing. It's hard to see a basic logic layer. It's hard to see an overall backbone. There's bits of chunking here and there. But you can tell that they are thinking about relationships, but they're not thinking about how they can chunk it as much as possible. They're not prioritizing creating a really clear backbone that everything builds off of. They're not really thinking about how they can build that logic layer super cleanly. And so that needs to become more of a priority. They need to work with the bigger chunks first. They need to really establish how they can simplify these relationships. They need to spend a little bit more time in their head, managing that cognitive load before they can move on. So this probably would not be enough for a scent too. Now let's check out this person's culps. We can see straight away that the reflection is longer than the abstraction, which is a good thing, but it does look like the reflection is a little bit brief. And when you do look into it, you can see that they are actually asking good questions. They are going a lot deeper. They're talking about their reaction to certain struggles, and they are mentioning the sort of triggers and factors. So even though it is brief, it is quite focused. And so overall, I'd say it's fairly good. And you can see in the abstraction, it is very observational. They are using bits of their theory, but it's more about understanding what they've reflected on and pulling out the trends and observations, the behaviors and habits that they have that make them experience certain challenges. Now, if you actually look at the ones down here, this is much, much briefer and lower quality. their experiment actually ends up being less relevant as well. And so there's a little bit of inconsistency with the technique here, but what they have done is done reasonably well enough. It could still be a little bit better, it could be a bit more specific, the abstraction could be a little bit more fleshed out, the experiment could be a little bit more targeted, and they could have more consistency of technique, but it's good enough to move on to a sense 3 as long as they work on improving that. And if we look at some of their work, we can see that there is a good overall backbone here. The way that they have chunked it, a problem being solving versus avoidance, mental models going to true understanding, going to understanding reality. So we can see that the chunks that are formed are fairly logical, it's easy enough to follow. There's not much information on here, so would they get technique deterioration when they add more information? That's possible. So we have to be aware of that. But we can see another example where there's more information, and we can see that there is a little bit of technique deterioration. It's a little harder to follow. We've got lines crossing each other. You know, it's harder to see where that main logic layer sort of is. However, it's not too bad. It's not too bad. It does still follow a generally decent structure. It's a little bit hard to sort of read what's going on, but it still looks like there isn't really spider webbing. It doesn't look like there's water falling. It just looks like this person needed to just think about some of the relationships a little bit more before they committed to it, so that they would avoid crossing these lines over if they had predicted and had the foresight to think about that. And they can potentially improve on this during the Ascent 3 stage. So combined with the good quality colbs, combined with obviously being able to have a clean backbone, I'd say this person is at a level where they can move on to Ascent 3 and just continue to work on cleaning up their technique. and they'll probably need to spend a little bit of time in Ascent 3 until it becomes comfortable enough where they have overall cleaner chunk maps and grind maps. Here's another one. Have a look at this one and what do you think? Remember, we're looking at importance-based chunking, no water falling, no spider webbing, good laterality, use of visuals, and all the other stuff from every previous step. Alright, so hopefully you were able to spot that the logic layer here has formed relatively well. It's very clear, it's very obvious, there's no water falling or spider webbing that's going on. Again, it looks very brief, however this technique may just be relatively simple, so that's fine. They've got use of visuals here and everything that they can improve on, they can work on that in Ascent 3. So this person would be ready to move on if they're spaced interleaved retrieval and all of the colbs and the other things that we haven't had a chance to look at as long as those check out as well. And now what do you think about this one? This I think is a really common type of pattern that we see and I wonder if you're able to spot this in your own notes. So have a look at this for a few seconds and I'll tell you what I'm seeing. So in this example we have a very good just singular logic layer in the middle. We've got But what we're seeing is, number one, this very, very grid-like, very ultra-organized pattern. And this person actually does this across the board for all of their work. As a result, all of their mind maps actually just look the same. And what that's doing is it's taking away the spatial arrangement, the shape aspect of our memory. We could really be utilizing a unique shape to help us remember certain points and serve as additional memory cues. But in this case, because everything kind of looks the same, nothing stands out and it's going to be a lot harder to remember. Especially as we get into more complex and more detailed maps than what we've got right now. Aside from the fact that it does seem like it's just generally lacking certain details, if we actually go in and have a look at the chunking structure that's being used, we can see that it's a little bit confusing in terms of what this person has actually done. We've got the concept of vectors lean to force and motion force lean to motion. That's okay But when we break this down, we've got force going to unbalanced which is contributed to by gravity which affects the Force going to motion and emotion goes to 2d which also goes to from gravity and then gravity then splits into the Universal Gravitation versus Field versus Weight. So we can see that here, this does not look like importance-based chunking. This method of chunking doesn't feel super logical. And the arrows, it's unclear as to what the arrows are actually representing, because it doesn't seem like it reflects a flow of importance. It looks sort of more like a cause and effect relationship, which is okay for a technique training, But right now we want to have a little bit more conceptually valid chunking. Circular motion here split into uniform versus describing. So that's, you know, could potentially work but it is a little bit interesting. And uniform divided into orbits versus maintaining. So if you have one as maintaining, you would assume that the other is maybe not maintaining or something else that is related to maintaining. But orbits is a little bit odd. It's the same kind of oddness as uniform versus describing. It doesn't feel like these two, you know, if it's uniform, I would expect this to be non-uniform. Or if this is describing, I would expect this to be demonstrating or something along those lines. So there's a bit of inconsistency with the chunking here. And if you're able to spot the single one major big red flag that shows that the chunking here is not enough, is that gravity goes into one, two, three, four, five, six different directions, breaking the 2-4 rule, meaning that there is not enough chunking that's done here. But actually, this person's gonna find that it's difficult to chunk in general, uh, because likely their aim step is a little too superficial, and they're probably not thinking about importance in the correct way. There may be reverse causality flaw, and this is something that this person will have to attend a lot of live clinics, go through a lot of the spot the issues challenges, get lots of feedback and continually do some cobes on if they're gonna work to improve this. And for this particular student, I do know that it did take a little bit of time to wrap their head around the correct version of the technique. But hopefully you can at least spot the issues that I mentioned, or at least follow along and understand it take this time to check through your own notes to see, do you see the same issues? And finally, we have this example from another student. We've got their list of keywords here, and it looks like it's already been chunked. Again, we don't have the questions that they used to chunk it, but we can look at the way they've chunked it to see if it looks importance-based. They've divided this chapter into, I'm not sure exactly because, I don't know if it is really chunked, because it looks like they've divided this into pathogens, communicable diseases, bacteria, prokaryotes, viruses, bacteriophages, nonspecific defenses. So there's a lot of things going on here. So this surely isn't enough for it to be chunked, which makes you think, well then why is it indented in the way that it is? And that probably just reflects the chunks that were given to them in the textbook, which increases your risk of chunking them incorrectly because now you're thinking inside the box that it's already given to you and you're much less likely to break the existing chunks. For example, moving something that was in here to maybe around here, if you thought that that was relevant, you're already predisposed to thinking, Nope, this belongs inside the chunk called transmission. And in this case, sure, maybe it does, but it's not always the case, and that can create a lot of errors, especially when we're trying to gain more efficiency with the more advanced variations of this technique that we're gonna use in the later stages. If we are not having very, very good order control and independent chunking, that creates a lot of issues, often ones that we're not aware of and are very hard to coax on because they can be so under the radar that it takes an expert to really pick them out. I'm curious as to know how they managed to chunk these, and I don't have the questions that they used either. But if we go down and have a look at their work, we'll see that there is a basic backbone that's been formed here. There is obviously chunking here that's shown. There is some laterality that's been shown. It's not super heavy with information, but there's nothing super concerning that I see here, at least right now. Now let's have a look to see the next topic that they've done, And we can start seeing a couple areas. For example, we can see this here where there is a new chunk that appears seemingly kind of out of nowhere, which might mean that they're not working with their major chunks first. And it does look at certain points that it's a little bit hard to follow what's going on in the details. But so far, it's not looking terrible. But now when we look at this one, there's a few other things that we can actually notice. The logic is almost impossible to follow and the chunking is sort of very intermittently there but here we are not seeing consistency of the technique and the possibility of this person not working with their major chunks, the biggest chunks first is validated here. They're likely working with a chunk, expanding on that, working through the concepts and then letting that lead to the next chunk and that's going to be an efficiency drain. You want to be working with the main chunks first, that should be step number one. And once we've built that frame, everything else then hangs off of it. Whereas here, we can see that, you know, this, I mean, it's even hard to see where the chunks really are. And we've got sort of chunks appearing out of nowhere, we've got chunks appearing out of an arrow, like an intersection point where a chunk sort of appears that's completely unlabeled. This is really common for people that are only thinking about relationships between individual ideas. and they're not thinking about how it fits in the big picture, and they're losing sight of importance-based chunking when it seems like there is another intuitive way that they can just chunk it based on gut feel. And yes, it can work sometimes, but when the information is more complex, we end up getting very inconsistent chunking. It's hard to create flow between the information because your chunk structure for one part might be different from the way you chunked another part, and connecting the two is really awkward because they're fundamentally representing different forms of chunking, but you know that they're related to each other and it becomes very, very messy to try to express that. And often we don't even try to express it. For this person, I would say that they're not quite ready to move on to Ascent 3. And I would really wanna look at what questions they're using in their aim step to make sure that they are doing importance-based chunking, as well as this person's COBE technique to see why have they not picked up on some of these mistakes that they've made. And if they have picked up on it, what are they doing about it? With that, there's a lot of different things that can go wrong at the ascent two, ascent one stages. And it's important that we're very aware of these and we're examining them really critically. So have a look through your own work and see am I making the same type of mistakes that have been shown here? And if you are, then that's really, really good that you've been able to identify them. Well, go back, work on those, get feedback as you need, life clinics, all the rest, you know the drill, work through that. And if you're not really at that level, If you're not able to be as consistent with your technique or if you're one of those people that hasn't actually practiced it as much and you know that you've been kind of rushing through and not practicing it, now is really your last chance. Well, I think really last checkpoint was probably the last safe chance. But at this stage, we really should be going back and taking it a lot slower and practicing everything. If you have reached all the guidelines, then that's fine. You just carry on through to Ascent 3 and we'll see you at the next checkpoint.