[İTİŞME SESİ] And based on that we can create some variations. And those are the things that we are genuinely curious about being able to say or write or understand. So now it's time to shoot. And very simply we are just going to learn to be able to fill that. And it's very easy actually. You don't know how to say the word. You look up the word and you figure out how to say it. It's literally that simple. So you have the things that you want to say with the aim. So when you're shooting, you just learn to do it. You learn how to do it. The only things that I'm gonna mention here is that when you learn to do it, you actually probably should use a combination of flashcards, but you also wanna be applying it constantly. So if you just apply what you're learning straight away, you will be able to pick it up, but there are gonna be words that you forget because you forget to apply them. Whereas if you just have flashcards, you're gonna forget them because that word isn't gaining any additional meaning. We're not able to connect that anymore to other words, new words that we might have learned, new sentence structures. We're not gonna get any of that great connection. So eventually that's gonna fade and we're gonna need to do this flashcard like six times to stick into our brain, or maybe even more. And if you're learning an entire new language, that's a lot of flashcards to do and it's pretty overwhelming. So you wanna have a very rapid cycle between flashcards and application. I actually generally say that when you're doing this, you actually want to be applying every single new word that you are using as much as possible, as well as doing flashcards. I'd say there's no limit to that level of the frequency. The more frequent you can do it, the better. And you'll start noticing and feeling for yourself that when you don't apply it properly, you need to do flashcards more and more and more, and it's just like memorizing it. And when you start applying more and more and more, you realize that you don't actually think about the flashcard anymore, you just sort of know the word. And if you're not doing any flashcards and you're just applying it, you will feel like you know the word, but then you'll come across words that you're like, oh, I remember learning that, but then I forgot. And that's just because you forgot to have a record of it. So having a combination of these is gonna be really important. And when you're applying it, you can apply that in terms of speaking it and listening to it, having conversations. You can also apply that through reading and writing. Depending on how you're assessed at school or what your personal goals are for this language, I would recommend strongly that you do a combination of both. So just make sure that you are applying in both forms as much as possible. And again, as you learn more, what's going to happen is that your comprehensible level, so your current level, is going to start expanding out. And so your comprehensible input level is not going to stay in the same space. Obviously, stuff that you just barely understood before, if you now understand it, that's actually within your comfort level. So your comprehensible input is always gonna be expanding out. So therefore, you need to go back to your aim and then find new dialogue, new things, new types of things that you're curious about being able to communicate. And then you create variations from that, and then you go back to learning about it. And you just repeat the cycle again and again until you get to the point where you think that you'll be very well and easily at the level that you need to be for your exams. And this is very simple to do. It's very natural. It feels very easy. And it is actually a form of inquiry-based learning, although looking slightly different because of the fact that it is a language and there are a lot-- it's a very different type of thing to study compared to something like chemistry or biology. So we'll look at how we can skin this later on. But to be totally honest, this aim-shoot cycle here, that we're constantly going back and forth between. This cycle is where 90% of the learning is going to come from, but you're not able to obviously shoot in the right direction if your aim step wasn't good in the first place. But we'll look at what the shoot step looks like when it comes to languages soon. If you