(Mind Map messy, right? It'll look relatively messy at the beginning, like the first round of my maps, like I said, you know, you'll have content here and then maybe a few branches coming out and then that will link to another thing and then maybe these two will link together and it links to this one, but then you feel like that links to that and this links to this one and that links to this one and, you know, it becomes a big mess, right? You know, this is quite chaotic. It's hard to follow, right? So if we were evaluating this, we would say that the relationships on this are not particularly clear and what it reflects is an attempt at good order control, but we need to do this a little bit more. We need to really clean this up. We want it to be very, very smooth. And so what we want to do is actually make our mind maps even higher quality. We want to make it even higher quality and make our learning even more efficient. So what I'm going to teach you now is a way that you can, what I say is layer your learning in order to make your entire studying process more efficient. But more importantly, it actually helps you to do your mind maps as well. Now this particular technique, once you learn about this concept, it's going to allow you to cram much, much faster. There's an entire cramming technique that this is based on that I will teach you near the end of this course because it's, you know, pretty much straight up impossible for most high school students to use that technique because their fundamental skills just wouldn't be high enough. They'd be going into the death zone, falling off the edge of the cliff. But you, when you get to that point, I think you'll have the skills to use this advanced cramming technique, which is much faster. I've actually used this technique in the past before. Funnily I actually forgot that an entire paper existed. Don't ask me how, it's a long story, but anyway, I forgot the paper existed, and I only had 72 hours to study for a third year university medical paper, and I used this cramming technique. Actually, not even the same technique. It was a much more basic, much less efficient version of the technique, 'cause I just didn't know as much as I know now, back when I was in my third year of university. And I used that to actually cram in and do relatively okay for this exam, given that I only had 72 hours to prepare for it. Not good planning on my part, but I have learned since then. But the fundamental of this technique that I used actually is derived from what I'm gonna teach you today, the layers of learning. So not only can you use it to cram, you can also use this to study when you have very little time and extended blocks. So for example, I've worked with certain competitive athletes and they have very rigorous training schedules. So in a single week, they may only have, let's say, 10 hours of time available where they can actually sit down and just study for focused periods of time, of more than, let's say, two hours at a time. So they've only got 20 minutes here and there, 30 minutes here and there, on the bus to and from training. And these students are trying to get that top 1% as well. So for these students, they need to use a more advanced and efficient technique. Right, because obviously it's not possible to study with this type of hectic schedule if you're studying efficiency as only that of a normal student. And all of that, that comes down to understanding this as well. So this is again really, really powerful, okay? I would say that this is on the level of learning about order control, I would say that this is a fundamental technique that even a lot of advanced and high-level learners know. Okay, this is a way of learning that only I would say the really most efficient learners in the world would learn through and this way of learning with the combination of layers of learning and you're probably you're curious at the moment what is layers of learning? Justin please tell me but let me just say how effective it is. So layers of learning plus order control plus inquiry-based learning. Okay. So all of the things that you've learned so far and are about to learn, okay, inquiry-based learning, order control, all these things I'm teaching you. These are the techniques that we've heard reports of and seen Elon Musk, Bill Gates, a stream of extremely successful people who are notorious at learning very, very quickly. this is how they have been reported to learn and there's news articles, interview snippets out there that once you learn about this, you'll be able to read that and think, "Oh, what they're talking about is actually inquiry-based learning." They might say it differently, but what they're doing is this or, "Oh, what they're talking about is this," or, "What they're talking about is this." So these three in combination are extremely powerful. And once you learn this, we will have nailed out some of the most important foundations of efficient learning, and it's going to integrate perfectly with your mind map. Okay, so let's get into it. Layers of learning. What actually is it? All right, so what we basically say here, right, is that when we are learning anything, okay, we know that we are doing the act of studying and when studying is geared towards building relationships, that information then becomes meaningful and because it's meaningful, your brain will retain it, okay, and that means it's more efficient. We've covered this multiple times now. We also know because of order control that even if the textbook or whatever it was laid it out as A, then B, then C, then D, that can potentially be very low efficiency. This might be very low levels of retention. We would not be happy learning this. It's very slow. It's tedious. We don't like this. So this is a low retention. We know that when when we activate order control and we take control over the order of how we learn things, then we can actually optimize it for the way that our brain likes to think. We can optimize it for how we want to learn it, which could be half of B first, and then A, and then the second half of B, and then going to D, and the first half of C, then going back to A, and the second half of C. And this way of learning would actually be much faster And we'll be much happier with it because of the fact that it's optimized for our brain and this is the right order for us. This is our right order. This is the best order for us, the order that allows us to learn it in the fastest possible way achieving the greatest level of retention. And we've also covered how the order in which we learn things is actually dictated by our aim step. Our aim step means we ask our brain, "Hey, what is it that you're curious about?" And that primes our brain to think about relationships and increase retention. And then when we go to answer those questions, because our questions aren't naturally in the order that it's given to us, we inevitably, we just end up learning it in a different order, purely because we're following our aim. We're following where we're aimed and where our brain tells us we want to learn next. We're letting ourselves create questions, create a process of inquiry, and that process of inquiry is what dictates what we consume next, what we think about, what we read, what question we ask after that. So we are in total control, right? So the aim step is actually the thing that bridges the two. This is what allows us to know what to study next. This is what dictates our order. This is what therefore increases the relationships and increases our retention, okay? So that's what we know. So therefore, we must know that not all information is created equal. Not all information is created equal. So once we do this, we might come to making a mind map that looks like this. And this will be a pretty good, very neat mind map. You can see very good flow of information here. It's very clean. The relationships are clear. is interconnectivity between the branches. So this is all very, this would be a great looking mind map if it looked like this and looked really simple. But not all information is created the same, okay? Not all information is created the same. Not all information provides us the same amount of learning. So let's say that we were to take this concept, this concept, this concept, this concept, and then this concept, okay? Let's say that those were the one, two, three, four, five concepts that we wanted to see how important it was. In that case, our mind map would start with this, this, this, this, and this. Now remember, all of our memories are always recalled through being recreated from scratch. So if we have these points here, then we might know, okay, this is related to something over here, I'm pretty sure. And then this is related to something over here. And I know that these two are directly related with each other. And I know that this is contributed to by these two parts. And then this thing comes from something here. So therefore it must connect like that. But what's the connect? So this must connect like this. And then I think this connects like this, but I think there was something else as well over here. And there's something going on over here as well. And I'm pretty sure there was more over here too. So do you see, when we use those red points as the sort of core anchors for our knowledge, the mind map, what we're able to recall, there's a lot of gaps in it. There's a lot of gaps. Okay, but what if we were to pick these ones? What if we would pick one, two, three, four, and five? What if those were our core points? Well, then when we were to reconstruct this, we would say, okay, we've got a point here, and we know that this point is connected to something here and here and here. And then that goes to this one. And I know that that joins along with this one to create this, which leads to another thing, which had a few branches coming off of it. And I know that this one comes from two branches there. So now you can see that we actually have built the main shape. You can see that, right? We don't have the branches over here. We're missing that. We're missing this. And we're missing this. However, we can see that the overall shape, we've got that. Exactly. Okay, we've got the shape. All we're missing are some of the details on the edges. So in this case, exactly the same five points that we picked, right? Five points, five sort of nodes of information. But these five points allowed us to recall the overall picture and recall the information much more easily, because they were more highly connected. formed what I like to often call the backbone. In other words, this is what contributes the most to the structure of knowledge. These are like the core relationships that everything is built on. If you imagine that your knowledge is like a map, and a mind map is meant to be a map of your mind. So if it's like a map with buildings and roads between everything, it might look very confusing. All these roads going to and from places. What the backbone is, is that they're the highways, okay, where you can get off at any of the exits. They're the motorways that everything else is kind of built around. So everything becomes much more memorable because you have this very solid backbone, a very solid structure that everything else kind of hangs off from. So all of this information is related to this point, which is related to this backbone. This stuff is related to here, which is related to all of this. So it's much easier to create relationships because you've got a solid backbone. Whereas if you pick sort of random points peripherally, then it's much harder to make these relationships 'cause you're having to fill in the connections a lot more. So what we wanna do, conceptually speaking, is when we're learning, we actually want to learn the backbone first, right? And it makes sense. If we think about building a house, we wanna build the foundation first. This is number one. And then we wanna build our framing on top of that. These are the sturdy support pillars that are gonna hold up the roof and the walls. And then we wanna build the roof, we wanna build the walls on top of that, put in a door, and then we wanna go and hang up the paintings and put up a mirror. We wanna do all of that afterwards, right? So there's clearly an order in which it makes sense to build structure. And remember, structure means we have things that are related to each other. We have a web of information. These are connections that are formed. It doesn't make sense for us to start by building the roof first, 'cause it doesn't matter how much time or effort we spend building the roof. There's no support for this to hang on. So this is just gonna crumble. Straight away, it's just going to collapse. There's nothing for it to relate to, there's nothing for it to hang on to. Okay? And it would take a much longer time to build a house if you were doing it this way because it would just collapse on you so often, you would spend most of your time just rebuilding. Okay? Instead of spending time, I don't know, putting up your mirrors and your paintings. So let's make this a little bit more relevant to studying, more concrete. So we have to build the structure first. That's what we actually want to focus on. So number one, we want to build structure. So the first thing is that we want to make sure we have a very strong backbone, a very strong structure. And this backbone, this structure is actually something that I just call the fundamental logic. It's the why does this thing happen and why is it important, right? So logic means there is a cause and there is an effect. If I say I dropped my pen and it made a sound, therefore it made a sound when it hit the ground. There is a cause and effect that's logical. If I say, "I dropped my pen and then my room exploded," that is probably not logical unless I have some extremely convoluted, intricate mechanism through which the floor detects that a pen has been dropped and will trigger a bomb in my room, which is unlikely. So cause and effect means that there is a reason for something to happen or exist, and And then the effect is simply a consequence of the cause. And you can have multiple causes, right? A single effect can have multiple causes. And these causes can have causes, right? And the causes can have causes, and the causes can have other causes. And this effect could cause something else, have another effect. So you can see what's happening here is that when we keep branching out these causes and effects and all the different effects that these causes have, we are actually building a mind map. This is a mind map. Okay, this is a mind map that we're building and this is the fundamental logic. By asking ourselves the questions, by now we should have these questions memorized, why is it important and how does it relate to everything else? By asking these two questions, it allows us to understand the cause and effect relationships within the topic. And we're gonna see this when we look at the subject specific examples. Okay, we're gonna see that, hey, the reason that the plant grows is because of the nutrients from the roots and also the energy it gets from photosynthesis. So, hey, photosynthesis is not only the effect of chlorophyll and sunlight, it's also the cause for growth in combination with nutrients from the roots. So it's a very simple example, but when we ask why things are important and how it's related, we are forced to think about these relationships. You can't think about why it's important without thinking about how it's related to anything else. So we want to focus on building this logic first, very basic logic. And it's simply when you build the logic, it simply is just really a sequence of keywords. And just the main relationships and the main concepts. These are the really big picture items. We're not going into the huge detail. We're not memorizing all the facts, the enzymes, the involve the page number that things happened on. We're not memorizing all of that stuff. What we're focusing on is just the big themes, main themes, main keywords, main relationships. And you'll see that this is related to the first step of making the mind map which is to outline the main big picture most obvious relationships. Because what that does is it builds us the logic. Okay? And because if you have a mind map that has lots of things going on, it's really hard to rearrange this because there's so many things, you know, there's so many strings that are tangled up that it's hard to make it clean. But if instead of that, we only have a few main points, then it's very easy to make sure that this is very clean. Okay, because there's just less stuff that we need to think about. And it's unlikely that the logic, the basic logic of the entire topic would change drastically. So if we can get this right, it means that we have built a solid structure that we can then build off of. And if we take time to get this right, everything that sits on top of it should also be right. And it's unlikely that as we're building the roof, you know, we realize, oh, we need to add more or we put up the structure wrong or, you know, this beam is too wide or whatever. You know, if we spent time getting this right, it's unlikely to change moving on. Okay. So we want to spend a lot of time building the structure very comprehensively. And that is the most important part of the topic. Once we know this, everything else builds on top of it. This is the core. And so this is actually in the middle of this little onion of knowledge. Okay. Logic is in the middle. It's the most important thing. Everything else wraps around the logic. If that wasn't here, everything would just sort of cavitate inwards, it would sort of crumble and implode. There's nothing for it to balance off. It would be a roof suspended in midair, just waiting to fall down. And maybe if you memorize enough, you can get over that, but it's gonna take you a heck of a lot longer to do that. So that's the first step, is the structure, the backbone. So then what's the second step? Well, the second step is actually the major concepts. Okay? They're the major concepts. So if the logic is why things happen, the concepts are how it happens, and more specifically, what is it that's happening? So if the logic is that I drop my pen, and therefore it makes a sound when it hits the ground, The concepts are why or how do I drop my pen? Because my hand lets go of it? Because of friction and gravity? Why does it hit the ground? Why does it make a sound? Well, it's a material that the floor is made of, plus the concept of sound waves being generated on impact and conversion of energy. So these are our concepts. So we are on the frame of the structure. We're putting up more support. We're putting up more pillars. We're putting up walls. We're really making it look more like a house, right? We're putting in the basic roofing on here. So the concepts is the stuff that we really want to know, but we spent time building the structure so that we could learn this much faster. Okay, 'cause now this actually just makes sense. It's like, oh, of course, this is how it works, all right? So if on this mind map, If we say that this stuff here is the basic backbone and logic, then the concepts are this, this, and this. Maybe this one as well. So then we're building that on top of it. And that is the second thing, the thing that immediately hangs off of that logic. These are the concepts. So these are all those key words that didn't seem as important, okay? So if you have a huge list of key words, you're gonna say, okay, you know what? This keyword and this keyword, these are probably like the two biggest, most important things. And this one, this one, this one, this one, and this one, they actually kind of fit underneath these, all right? There exists in a different level of importance and hierarchy. So the most, most important ones where without knowing that you would have no idea what the purpose, why anything is important, you wouldn't understand how anything relates to anything else. Those key words and themes and main relationships, they form the basic backbone and structure. They form the logic. The other key words that just kind of explain it a little bit more and give us a bit more detail, sub-concepts, maybe different types of reactions, maybe different types of mechanisms, maybe different types of motion and projectile motion or mechanics, different chapters, different themes and sub-themes and different characters that represented those themes. These are now the concepts. And the third thing after that, these are now the important details. So important details are really specific details, okay? They're really specific details. They're no longer keywords or themes anymore, okay? They're no longer relationships anymore, okay? We did all of the relationships and all the keywords. We finished them in step number one and number two. When we get to step number three, we are looking at very specific information. The catalyst that's used, the number for that constant, the specific type of reaction, the name of the enzyme, the place in the cell that the process occurs, the particular way of using an equation. So these are the very specific details. And these are the things that normally you'd have to just memorize through rote learning and repetition. Okay? However, what makes them important, okay, what makes them important is that by learning this, it makes the concept much easier to understand. So that's the thing. How do we know it's important? We know because an important detail makes a concept easier to understand. Okay, so when I go through and give you subject specific examples of how to do mind maps correctly and how layers of learning apply to that, that's an important detail. It's very specific, but it's gonna allow you to understand how all of this works better. If I explain to you photosynthesis as a concept, Learning the actual photosynthesis reaction, the equation of it, that is gonna allow you to understand the concept of photosynthesis better because there's more tangible, concrete things to anchor on. Okay, it's more concrete. It's kind of like someone explaining something to you, like they're trying to explain to you what a picture looks like. And they say, "Oh, I'm looking at this and it feels really bright and it's vibrant and there's scenery and it's outdoors and there's a beautiful landscape and they're explaining you all these concepts to do with it. The concrete part will be saying, look, this painting is actually six meters wide and you're thinking, oh, that's much wider than I thought. Having this detail in my brain allows me to understand the concept of what you're trying to explain much more easily. Okay, so I generally say roughly, depends on your curriculum, but roughly around 30 to 50% of detail is important. So what about all the other detail? What about the details where you read it and you think, I do not understand why I need to know this whatsoever. It seems completely random. It seems like something I just need to memorize. It doesn't allow me to understand the concept any better. It's just another fact. Like, it literally doesn't help, you know, I understand the concept perfectly. I understand the concept, that detail really anchored it in place to make me really understand more concretely what it means, but I still don't get it. Like, I still don't get why this detail is important. Why am I learning this right now? Yet I know I still need to learn it because I'm getting examined on it. What I call those, these I call arbitrary details. arbitrary details. These seem random. They seem unnecessary. These are the details that you're basically only learning because your exam or curriculum requires it. Now here's the thing, if you didn't know about layers of learning or about inquiry-based learning or about order control, most students will find that when they're learning stuff, only about 10 to 20% of their learning is conceptual. Only about 20% of their learning is important detail and all the rest is arbitrary detail here. Which means that around 70% of the time that's spent studying is spent on just memorization, repetition, and rote learning. And therefore, because there's nothing, there's no scaffold, there's nothing for it to sit on, they haven't asked why it's important or how it relates. As a result, these things they've memorized, they don't have many relationships. They don't relate to other parts of the topic. Therefore, their retention is low. Therefore, the amount of forgetting is high. Therefore, a lot of time wasted on just relearning the stuff that they've already learned before, just repeating it again and again and again. And actually, it shouldn't be like that. The arbitrary details only make up around 50% of all the details, which only makes up roughly 20 to 30% of the entire topic. In some topics, it's even less than that, it's like 10%. Okay? Which means it's actually the total opposite. 70% of the time spent studying should be spent on understanding the logic and the concepts. 30% of the time is spent on learning the important details and the arbitrary details. But it's impossible to do this unless you actively try to follow this order. You learn this first. Once you have learned this, then you learn this. Then you learn this. Then you learn this. It's important to follow this order. Do not start with this and then just go straight to this and learn all of this and then this and then go back to this. There's no point doing it that way because then your information that you're learning becomes more complicated. There's more stuff to learn and memorize. There are more question marks. Why do I need to know this? What's the relevance of learning this? And less and less of the information is connected and you will start memorizing more and more stuff. Okay, so that feeling of trying to memorize through repetition should only happen near the end, should only happen near the end of your learning. So during class, you shouldn't be thinking about this. On the day after revising, you shouldn't think about this. That graph that I drew for you before, where an efficient learner learns really well, forgets a little bit, then revises it and retains that. During this process, this is where you should start memorizing. All across here, this is purely layer one and layer two. and maybe bits of layer three. So when you do it this way, you really save a lot of time. You really save a lot of time doing it this way. So these are the layers of learning. And it's important to stick to these layers and I will always stick to these layers. Always, always, always, no matter what I'm learning, no exception, I always stick to these layers because I just know how much faster it makes it, okay? So this is important detail. And this here, this is arbitrary details. So these are the layers of learning. And we'll see how this concept of inquiry-based learning and relationships, order control, doing mind maps, and layers of learning, how all of this comes together once we start evaluating how we can start, how we can make mind maps for some of those specific subjects and the way that I think. Okay, that's the most important thing. You want to pay attention to how do I think about it because what you think equals what you learn. It's not what you write, it's what you think. Okay, so just to come back on here, this here and then maybe this, this, and this, maybe this, and then this, and this, and that one. Maybe those are important details, and then all the rest, these end up being the arbitrary details. Okay? So that's layers of learning combined with mind maps, auto-control, and inquiry-based learning. And we're really going to spend a bit of time making sure we get this right, because people that can do that, generally, they win the studying game. academically, they'll be very, very confident, not much to fear. People that aren't able to do this very well, they will continue to struggle moving forward. Teşekkür ederim.