- A little bit more comfortable now with our principles of good note-taking, VP, Referee. And we're now going to do a mind map analysis, where we're just going to look at different mind maps and see what makes them better than the other notes that we saw. Now, here's the thing is that when you do mind maps, it's very normal to redo them. It's very normal to redo them. It's very normal when you're first studying to make mind maps, and then they look really messy, OK? The connections-- are crossing over each other and they're going everywhere and all of that sort of stuff, okay? That's fine, that's normal. We can actually process this again later to make it prettier and nicer and more organized. So that's actually a step that most students will need to go to anyway and I actually include that as part of the Behanta system. So don't worry about your mind map looking too messy. You know, you accept that it's going to be a little bit messy, but you still want to try to make them as clean and as organized as possible. Specifically, what we're talking about here is making the relationships as clean and as organized as possible, right? You don't want a mind map that looks like this, you know? It's like, yes, you've represented all the connections and relationships, but like you look at this and it's a chaotic mess. You have no idea what's going on. You want to represent it. So it's like, oh, okay, so like this point, this point, and this point, I can probably group them together, this point, this point, and this point, I can probably group them together. And then you can actually arrange your mind map in a way where these lines are not crossing as much. Almost imagine there's strings and we're pulling them apart, and then we're straining them out so they're not tangled anymore. We wanna be able to do that because forcing us to think about how we can make these relationships cleaner actually activates the part of our brain involved in spatial arrangement and abstract expression, which increases our learning and increases our attention because it uses more of our brain and it forms deeper connections and forms more of these deeper connections. Okay, so we'll have a look at some of these mind maps. I've got a lot of them, but I, and you know, I do have a lot. These are just a few from the ones that students have submitted to me. We're gonna go through and we're gonna see what the features of a good mind map are, what are the features of a bad mind map. And by understanding this, we'll get an understanding for when you look at your own mind map, what are the areas that you can improve on? Because you wanna develop your own eye for evaluation and appraisal, right? You wanna be able to look at your own set of notes and say, okay, I think this needs to be improved with number one, number two, and number three. You don't want to have to rely on us to tell you everything about how your notes need to be improved. You want to develop that skill by yourself. So let's have a look at some of these mind maps. Let's have a look at this one first. Okay, so look, first of all, is it visual? This mind map is not visual. Has it been processed? Yes, it has been processed, okay? It's been processed because I can see they've tried to connect things. They've clearly thought about how things connect together how the information can be structured. So there's been some thought there and everything is simplified, right? You can clearly see they've tried to simplify things down so they're not writing too much. So that's good. Then the next part, is it relational? To a certain extent, yes. However, the relationships aren't very clear. Okay, so you can see this is like going through a word. In fact, this is going through a word. So you can see that what happened was that they had written this and they wrote this and then they connected it afterwards. Ideally, we should be trying to make these connections beforehand so we don't run into these messy arrows. We're thinking about the relationships first, not the content themselves first. We think about how to make the relationships as clean as possible. And again, remember, this might be your first mind map that you do, then afterwards you might look at it and think, ah, this looks messy and this looks messy. Let's rearrange that so that we have this maybe over on this side. So it's like, this is two-way reactions here. So we may have something that's like two-way reactions over on this side. We've got reduction reactions here. We might have reduction reactions like this. And then catalysts, we might have that down here. So we can form a nice triangle like that. And again, that activates different parts of our brain, increasing our retention, right? And then as a free hand, yup. Is it reflective of the way that they were learning it? Yes, it was. It looks like it was, because you can see that there's a different order in which it was done. It seems like they're representing these relationships, but what it's reflecting is, like we've just seen, it's reflecting that they put the information first rather than thinking about and prioritizing the relationships, right? So that's a mistake there. Okay, so I'm gonna give that a half. And is it efficient? I'm gonna give that a somewhat because, you know, again, the relationships weren't made as clear, but it is processed, so relatively speaking, compared to trying to represent all of this and just down the page lines, it's gonna be more efficient. But you can see that even this, which is not done perfectly, it actually wins relatively more than just the linear nodes, which were failing on pretty much every single aspect. So as soon as you start doing mind maps, Like I said before, your brain inherently tends to think in mind maps. It's just a fact. It's just a scientific fact. So when we use mind maps, it just tends to stick a lot better if we do them well. And remember, if you've used mind maps before and you thought, ah, it didn't work for me, don't-- just shut off. Like I said, most people do mind maps the wrong way. Most people do mind maps the wrong way. And the thousands of students I've worked with, I've never had a student that did MyMaps the right way and still found it ineffective. That is to say, every student I've ever worked with who said that MyMaps didn't work for them, every single one of them, 100% of those students were doing them wrong, okay? So if you have had experience with MyMaps and it hasn't worked for you in the past, you know, maybe you'll learn how to do them correctly because it is a surprisingly technical skill. There's actually an entire book about mind maps. It's like 150 pages long. I've read that entire book. And yeah, let me tell you, it's pretty technical. Let's have a look at this one, all right? Is it visual? Yeah, we've got images here. We've got visual elements there. Okay, not too many words. Is it processed? Well, yeah, you can see it's being processed because it's very simplified. Simplified. There's clear demonstration of relationships here. Is it relational? Well, like I said, look, you can see the relationships quite clearly on this, right? You know, what could be improved probably is that there aren't too many relationships between these points. You know, it sort of branches from here outwards, but there aren't really connections that bridge things together like so. So that's an area that could be improved on. So in terms of the relationships, it's generally speaking a yes, but it could still be better. Is it reflective of the way that they've learned it? I would say yes. This is probably the way they understand it in their mind. It's probably how they understand it in their mind, and it seems to be quite organized in their mind. So that's good. Is it efficient? Generally speaking, I'd say yes. Not a lot of time wasted writing unnecessarily, a lot of effort focused on spatial arrangement and relationships. So inside this person's mind, we can tell it's gonna be organized, they're gonna have a high level of retention. Overall, they're gonna feel like it just makes sense. Okay, and therefore it's gonna be easier and more memorable for them. All right, good, let's have a look at this one. Again, a lot of stuff that's done really well. Is it visual? Yeah, we can see visual elements here. A little bit more abstract. Okay, that's all very good. Is it processed? Yes, because we can see there's clearly a flow of things going on. Is it relational? Yes, it is. Having said that, it's a bit hard to follow these arrows, right, you know, you have to really kind of track them to see what's going on. So that's not as clean as it could be. But again, that might be a limitation of just the size of the page that's being used as well. So again, relational, and you'll realize, relational is the hardest part. Relational, yeah, relatively good, but still can be improved. Is it reflective of their learning process? Yep, again, it looks really organized. It looks like they understand what's going on. You know, so it looks like it's organized. It probably feels like it makes sense. But I would say that this person's level of retention is not gonna be as high as the previous person because the flow of events, the organization is not as clear, right? Like I'm saying, it's harder to follow these branches. You have to really kind of pay attention to the arrows. So it still doesn't look like that aspect is exactly as clean as it could be. Is it efficient? Overall, yep. There's not a lot of wasted time writing things unnecessarily. There's a lot of time spent on how to represent it with visual and relationships. So overall, the time spent to write these notes facilitated that thinking process. Pretty well, I'd say. So generally this is pretty good. So you can see how many of those guidelines are being ticked off by good mind map technique, right? Let's have a look at this one. Alright, is it visual? Not really, there's not really any visuals on here. But in fact, there's not actually really a lot of information in general really. So it seems like this person is lacking some detail. But there is a little bit of visualization here. A little bit, a little bit, but not a lot. So that could be improved on. Is it processed? Well, it does look like it's processed because there is this semblance of a flow. So this person is clearly trying to figure out how it all relates together. So therefore is it relational? Yep, relatively speaking it does seem to represent relationships. In fact it seems like they're focused on the relationship so much they've actually missed out on some of the detail that needs to wrap around these relationships. Which is not a common mistake to make. Is it reflective of their learning process? because it does look like there's been some organization and simplification in place. Is it efficient? I would say generally speaking, yes, the time that they spent on this produced consistent learning, but I think they probably need to get a little bit more in detail with this one. This one, alright, is it visual? No. Is it processed? Well, a little bit I would say, and that there is some semblance of relationship here. But when we look at this area, this is just a list. This is just a list. It is quite sort of listy. So it seems like it's, you know, it's maybe being processed a little bit, but I think there's a lot more processing that could happen. Is it relational? It is kind of, but again, look at how... It seems how low priority the relationships are. When you look at this, you don't really get a sense for how everything connects together super clearly. And when it does connect to something, it kind of just spits it out into this big list. So I would say that that area can be improved on a bit. Is it reflective? Sorry, I've been missing the freehand part because all of these are freehand. So okay, from now on, all of that, it's freehand, right? Is this reflective? I think it's reflective, but I think this person hasn't thought enough about those questions. They haven't thought about the "why is it important?" When you look at this mind map, do you get a sense for that? Do you get a sense for why this is important? I don't. DNA, okay? Enter fate, mitosis, meiosis, why is it important? Do you get a sense for that on these notes about why it's important? Okay, let's compare that to some of these previous ones. Do we get a sense for why the endo... I think this person has spelt it wrong. Do we get a feeling for why the endoplasmic reticulum is important? Well, it relates to this. So I do get a general sense that it is important for this process, right? Do we get an idea about why mitochondria is important? Okay Little bit Little bit because there's cell requirements here and there's so there's a little bit more here. Okay. What about this one? Do we get a sense for why fetal health is important because there's interventions and then diagnosis? Do we get a sense for why ultrasound is important because it's part of diagnosing fetal health? Do we get a idea of why? Technologies are important because it's part of assisted reproduction, which is part of treating infertility, which is part of mental health. So do you see here we get a very clear sense that this person has asked the questions. Why is it important and How does it relate? So the aim steps you can see have clearly been represented in this mind map. Do you see that? The aim steps have been partially represented in this mind map. Right, we see how it relates, but we don't see why it's important. In this mind map, we can see how it relates. We can sort of see why it's important. But in this step, we can't see why it's important, and we can barely see how it relates. Okay, so in that case the processing hasn't been done as well. So was it efficient overall? Generally, It's okay, but more on the no side because of the fact that it hasn't been processed in The most effective way so there's no point doing a mind map technique if inside your brain you're not thinking about the right stuff Okay, so this person needs to seriously ask themselves these questions a lot more And you know I actually know who the student is and that is definitely what they struggle with it comes to real and all of their subjects All right, this one is it visual? Yep, there's some visualization going on here and there. So visual is a yes. Is it processed? I'm gonna say it's kind of processed, but it's not processed very well because it's very messy. So are the relationships demonstrated? Yes, but not very well because it's just cake. It's just chaos. Okay, this is just chaos. You have no idea what's going on here. Is it freehand? Yes. Is it reflecting here is that it's just very chaotic. So therefore, is it efficient? I would say it's not that efficient. It's better than if they were to write it again, just left to write down the page and lines and paragraphs. But overall, compared to what it could be, it's not very efficient because a lot of time is wasted on just writing things out. And the relationships you can see, these arrows were clearly added in after the fact. It wasn't thought about beforehand, right? That's why it's so messy and it's just hard to follow it. So they haven't asked themselves the question of why is it important, okay? Why is nervous issue important? Who knows? Why is this important? Where does this even go? Why is this important? What part of the page is this meant to even be on, right? So it doesn't look like there's been much thought around that. This one, again, the visual aspect, not so well. I mean, there's elements of it, so we'll give that a semi on the visual. Is it processed? Not so much. I mean, it kind of just looks like they wrote a bunch of stuff and then they just like mass added arrows in afterwards. So even though they kind of have relationships, it's not really taken as a priority. So I'm gonna give that a no, okay? Not a priority. Is it reflective of the way that they were thinking about it? Yeah, I think it reflects that they were very linear. And is it efficient? I'm gonna say no, because of the fact that it failed on being relational. And it doesn't seem like there's an idea of why is it important and how does it relate. It seems like it's just information on a page with arrows chucked in afterwards. And then we can look at, all right, let's have a look at this one, right? Is it visual? Yep, a lot of visual stuff going on here. Is it process? Look, highly process is extremely organized flow going on here. So yes. Is it relational? Definitely, it's very clear to see the relationships. Okay. How it works, that's very, flow is very clear. Is it freehand? Yes, it is. Even though it's done electronically. Is it representative? So it represents that this person has clearly thought about why certain things are important and linked them back to the main topic. The big picture has always been held in mind. It's very organized. So I'm gonna say yes. Is it efficient? I'm gonna say yes, because not a lot of unnecessary writing that you can see. And a lot of what's been on here is very well processed. A lot of abstract visual representation, very good spatial arrangement, okay? Now, this mind map actually was done by the exact same person that did this mind map, and it's two months apart. Okay, so I worked with this student, and the student is actually the student I talked to you about before, Olivia. So this is one of Olivia's first mind maps when I first taught her how to do mind maps. And as you can see, it was a chaotic mess. Couple months later, she's pulling out mind maps that look more like this, which honestly include more information than the mind map you just saw. Even though it looks so much simpler, this has a lot of information on it, but just because she's able to reduce the amount of writing and represent it differently and represent it through the spatial arrangement and the concepts are just more apparent. It just looks so much simpler, even though there's actually a ton more information on this mind map than the previous one. By the way, if you don't remember, Olivia's been getting pretty much straight A+'s, 90% and above for every single test since then. So obviously it's working well. This one, is it visual? It is visual here, but here's a note about making things visual, is that it's not abstract. visual. So the thing about abstract is that you want to emphasize the most important parts. The thing with this is that all of these look the same, which means that it's not memorable. You're not going to have to remember like one versus three. And the only difference is that this has an O in the middle, whereas this one is blank. It's just, it's just too detailed. So if you really wanted to emphasize the O, you should have actually made this something that's like, you know, like a really clear O, like a ring or something. If this is OH, then maybe you want it to have like a speech bubble with someone that's like OH, okay? And if you want it to have, you know, I don't know, NH4 like this, you know, so the idea is that you should actually be representing it in a way that makes it more memorable. So it's visual. So I'm going to say visual, this is a good attempt, good attempt. However, It's done too linearly, too listy. And at the end of the day, there's still very linear, left to right, down the page sort of thing. The level of processing, again, I think the processing hasn't been done very well because the flow and the relationships between them just doesn't seem like it's very strong. The relational aspect, again, these clearly have been added in after the fact, right? So that's not very good. That hasn't been a priority. So again, if this is the first mind map that you're doing, that's fine. You can just do it again. Just make sure that the relationships are the priority this time. Priority. Is it freehand? Yes. Is it reflective of the learning process? Yeah. So what it reflects to me here is that it's still somewhat linear. The relationships are not being prioritized. And it doesn't seem like there's an idea of why it's important. And the "how does it relate?" is like an afterthought. Is it efficient? I'm going to say not really, because it doesn't have enough processing and relation focus. mind map here, it's like a text sort of response text analysis type thing in English. So okay, is it visual? Yep, there's visual elements. One little thing here is that this person is using lined paper, which you can see makes things just look very chaotic. So I recommend not using lined paper. Is it processed? Yep, I believe it is processed. You can see that there's good grouping of information. You can see that there's an effort to try to, you know, make things flow a little bit and connect things to root causes. Okay, so there's a level of organization there. Is it relational? Yeah, there are relationships being shown here. I think the thing here is that the page is probably so small, this looks like an A4 lined page, and you're just going to struggle with that. So I think this person's ability to express relationships clearly would be much easier if they just use bigger paper, because you know, this is all very, very cramped, and you just don't want that. Okay, so I'm going to say, okay, but because of page size. Freehand, yes, is reflective of their learning process. Yes, I believe it is, because it does have good organization in here. And is it efficient? I'm gonna say overall, it's relatively efficient. However, I think this person will actually struggle to remember all these relationships purely because of the fact that it's so hard to physically see on this page. This one here, you can see that it is visual. Okay? So, from now on, let's do this. Let's focus purely on what needs to be improved rather than saying what everything, you know, about it, which is good. So, the main issue here is that the relationships are not clear. That's the main thing. Relationships are not clear. So, you can see when you really focus, there are things going on. I mean, this arrow doesn't even really go anywhere. There are things going on, but the relationship overall, when you kind of look at this entire thing, it's not really clear what's, like, I get a feeling of like this type of thing happening, but outside of that, and like this, it's kind of messy to see what's happening. So I think the relationships here need to be a bit more clear. And I think the idea of why is it important hasn't been asked enough. Because it looks just more like a process. I don't think it's been thought through in terms of this aim step as clearly. Okay, this one, look, relationships are looking pretty good. What's the issue here? Okay, number one, don't ever do this thing where you copy paste diagrams in there. You are not like a human camera. Just because you copy pasted a diagram doesn't mean that you did anything good. All you've done by copy pasting a diagram is you've taken away an opportunity for you to represent it abstractly. You've taken away an opportunity for you to represent it visually. You've taken away the opportunity for you to process the information first. You've made it easy for yourself, which means that it's easier to be passive and not think about it. And it also becomes less memorable because of the fact that it's too detailed for your brain to really hold onto. It would have been better to look at this, think about how you can represent it yourself, and then draw it into your own notes, rather than doing this. So I see this type of thing a lot. That is not something that should be done. But in terms of the other things, the relationships, the grouping, the processing, the spatial arrangement, all of those are relatively good. So I'm sure this person has got a pretty good understanding of this topic of cell processes. Here, all right, straight away I can see a lot of visual. It looks so simple, there's so few words. Now, personally, I know what this topic is, and I know that this mind map actually covers an enormous volume of content. Yet again, but simply, it just looks like there's nothing going on because they've represented so much of that information through arrows and pictures. I mean, imagine explaining this arrow here in a sentence. It would be an entire sentence in itself. Imagine writing every single relationship in here through words. Now you can see how much information is actually on this mind map, right? So overall, this one is actually very good. Very good. It's very clear to see the flow. It's very clear to see the relationships. We've got relationships between things, coming and branching out from things, good spatial awareness, good visual representation and expression, all of it done very well. So that's very good. All right. Let's have a look at this one. Now, here's the thing. We've got a mind map where it's been done through typing. And what do we think about typing out our notes? No, we don't do that. Okay, not until we have a very advanced level of studying, which is very far from where this person is at based on how he can see that the relationships are not super, super clear, especially given the fact that This is not even the whole topic. This is just some of the main points. I think that this has been done a little bit too easily. It's a bit too passive and the writing is probably not helping at all, which is why I just don't recommend typing them out. This mind map here, okay, is it visual? Yes. What are we seeing? We see that there's a pretty good flow. We see a pretty good flow of ideas, all right? Pretty good flow. It looks like it's getting a little bit chaotic, especially around here. I think this can be cleaned up. Around here, this can be cleaned up. But this basic flow is very clear. So I can see that this person has asked themselves a question of why is it important? And then how does it relate? They've clearly asked themselves this question 'cause you can see those relationships very clearly. Since they've prioritized relationships, you know, overall, it's just a winning combination, you know, generally speaking. However, still pretty wordy, still quite wordy. So their visual representation is not done too great. All right, this one, okay, what's the main issue? Relationships, very, very messy, very messy. So this person needs to go through this again, clean up those relationships, and really try to group those ideas together. So it's just, it doesn't look, I mean, what is going on here? It's like a Chinese interstate, like crazy as nine way intersection or something, you know, that's crazy. You know, you're never gonna be able to remember that. So that all needs to be cleaned up. The relationships here were not a priority, okay? So this is clearly a beginner mind map, but again, you know, we're all beginners at some point, and it's just a matter of knowing what to improve on and how to improve on it. This person needs to really think and ask themselves the question of each of these, okay? Why is distance important? How does it relate to intensity? Why is intensity important? How does it relate to amplitude? And how does all of this relate to volume of sound? How does that relate to longitude noise? So we need to ask these questions. Why is it important? How does it relate? So you see how the aim questions keep coming up again and again. If we don't stick to these aim questions while we're learning, we can see that it causes problems in our retention later down the line. This one here, okay, the relationships are relatively good 'cause we can see a clear flow, but here, here, here a little bit, it gets a little bit messier, especially around here. So that can be cleaned up a little. The visual representation, that's the aspect that probably it falls on, but otherwise the relationships are clearly a priority here. So that's overall done quite well. This one, okay, great, looks very simple. probably lacking a little bit of detail to be honest, because there aren't a lot of images, and yet there's also not a lot of text, which means that there's probably, and there's also not a lot of arrows and relationships between things either, which shows that this is probably a little bit incomplete. Okay, so what this person needs to do is make sure they've got more connections between the different topics, okay? How do these things all relate to each other? As well as adding a little bit more information and finding a way to condense that with more images, more visuals while keeping this clean flow. But the relationships are done very well here. This one, okay, visuals aren't great. Okay, the relationships here are really messy. It's extremely hard to follow what's going on. I can generally make out because of the red arrows that this, this, this, and this are more important. But outside of that, I mean, I don't even know what's going on here. So this relationships really needs to be the focus of this one. Down here, look, relationships are pretty clean looking. We can just generally see the direction that things are going in, right? However, pretty wordy in some places, a little bit. I think we can add on a little bit more visuals to represent them a bit more abstractly. So this is something we can work on and maybe actually just even enhancing our relationships more by showing us which is most important. Okay, what's the most important flow? And that's something that this one did really well. The one here, we can see that the most important flow of information is like this, right? It's like that. We can see that. And these are examples down here. We can see that flow of information really, really easily, right? We can see that flow of information, you know, easily here. We can see it goes like this, like this, and like this. We can see that here it goes like this, and then like that. We can see that flow of information really, really clearly. Whereas in this one, it does seem to kind of go in all directions. I'm not sure where my eye should go at a certain point. It gets a little bit chaotic. So figuring out which particular flow might be the most important to emphasize. And like this one, you can see the flow is very clear. It's going out, it's going out. This one goes down, this one goes out. It comes back up and this all connects together. This comes and then connects in like that, right? So you can follow that flow very simply. This one, what's the main issue? There's no relationships. So this person does not value relationships. So until that's done, we can't really think about anything else. Visuals are good, but the relationships are not. one. Again, the relationships look like they were an afterthought. Good level of processing in terms of, you know, visuals and, you know, not too many words that are there, but the arrangement in space is very messy. It's hard to see what's going on, hard to flow. So this person needs to ask themselves, "Why is each thing important and how does it relate?" And they need to clean up this mind map to represent a little bit better. So again, this is something that you'd commonly see on the first mind map. We're not really sure exactly how it flows, so you do your best to represent it, and you add on all these arrows and it looks really messy, that's fine. You can just do this and then just clean it up and then do it again. This one, okay, the visuals are like kind of okay, however, the level of detail and information on this is also okay, but the relationships are really quite hard to follow. there's something going on here and in here and this is like going like this but it is quite difficult like there's a lot of strands of information happening here which is kind of hard to see so what this person needs to do is figure out what is the most important thing is like this and then it's like this is that the most these the most important you know main concepts the main flow of information. Okay, so again this person needs to ask themselves why is it important and that's gonna allow them to figure out which of these branches is the most important to follow. And same thing here except the visuals need work okay the visuals are not done very well so that needs work and then again there's not really anything here in terms of the relationships that's not being done very So this is almost just like left to right notes down the page So I would say the efficiency here is not very good because it's almost just the same as writing left to right down the page It's just that they've done it across the page and then across the page like that So this not very efficient and I can guarantee this person didn't learn All of this stuff just by writing at once and they're probably missing information because they're so wordy And this one again really good Very clean good flow of information here. It's a little bit messy to see what's going on in some of these places But overall the entire shape of it is just very clean Maybe a little bit too wordy in a few places, but overall done pretty well clearly focusing on the relationships So hopefully you can see a few trends between good mind maps and not so good mind maps And then you can see whether your mind maps that you create, you know Do they look like they have a clean flow of information? Do they look like they are using not too many words? Do we have a very clear understanding of where the information is going and the purpose behind it? And ultimately, have you been thinking in your own mind, have you been thinking about trying to keep it clean and organized by asking yourselves a question from your aim steps and really shooting in order to fill that in? Because when you do the AEM Step well, you've got all these questions that you're curious about, you should be able to go into the information, start creating these connections based on the answers that you'd get by going through all of your AEM Steps. And that's how you build your knowledge very organically. And we'll see a bunch of examples about how to do that when we actually look at the subject-specific examples.