So we're going to do something a little bit different at the moment. I'm going to take the example that we did before regarding metacognition and I'm going to show you how we go from the aim to the shoot, back to the aim, back to the shoot, back to the aim, back to the shoot, doing that aim-shoot cycle until I'm really happy with the amount of knowledge that I have. I'm going to do that on this topic here so you can see exactly what I'm doing step by step. to think out loud as I do this so that you can get a very clear idea of how this process works. The process I'm going to show you is exactly the same process as what I would do for biology, chemistry, maths, English or whatever other subjects, politics, law, history. The principle is the same so I want you to pay very careful attention to how I navigate the resource, when I look for new things, what type of questions am I asking. Really try to put yourself in my position and situation and give yourself time to think what would I do how do I think I would do this and how is the way that I do it any different to the way that you would think and those differences are going to be key to your learning. So let's start with this here we've already seen this I've got the same screenshot from the document that's available for download in the aim section where we looked at all the different keywords to know and I'm gonna to go through from the beginning now. So the first thing I need to ask myself, I haven't written down all the questions here, but I will be saying the questions out loud as I go, so you can tell what type of questions I would have written down. I just didn't write the questions down to save some time. However, these are the questions, especially if you're just beginning the system, you really should be using a Word doc or something like that to just write your questions down, just to get used to the act of creating these questions. It also means that you can critique your own question quality. But I will be talking the questions out loud. So pay attention to the types of questions that I ask, and pay attention to the questions that I don't ask, okay? So try to follow along here. So the first thing that I'm gonna do is look at metacognition. So that's the first thing, metacognition. I wanna know what is it, and why is it important? Metacognition is cognition about cognition, thinking about thinking. Okay, so I know what that means now. Why do we need to know this? I'm now skimming this to look for reasons why metacognition is important. Two components of it. That sounds interesting, actually. 'Cause I'm thinking in my head, I read this word two components of metacognition and I'm thinking like, oh, that might give me a clue as to why it's important. You know, these components might be more specific And so I'm able to relate to a little bit more knowledge about cognition and regulation of cognition, which is pretty abstract. So it didn't really help me in this case. Meta-memory defined as knowing about memory is an especially important form of metacognition. Let's have a look at something a little bit more-- I've got a contents thing here. Mental illness, works of art. Oh, let's just quickly skip to this bit. Metacognition can be loosely defined as... so okay, I'm seeing a lot of things about the definition of metacognition. I'm not seeing a lot in terms of the importance. I'm just gonna skip this to go straight to googling. Why is metacognition important? - Helps students understand how they learn best. It also helps develop self-awareness skills that become important as they get older. OK, why is metacognition important to life? Important in every aspect of school and life since it involves self-reflection of one's current position, future goals, potential strategies, and results. How does metacognition improve learning? Recognize the gap between being familiar with a topic and understanding it deeply. So it's about self-awareness, it's about understanding the gap, it's about skills, it's very transferable. So now I've got that in my mind. I've kind of got that in my mind. Now, me at the moment, I don't feel like I need to really write this down because it's not that hard to remember. It's literally just one thing that I've learned. And I don't care about writing notes, I care about developing knowledge. I don't care about studying, I care about learning. So I'm gonna just keep going, look at my next heading. So the next thing really to look at is cognition. I wanna know about cognition and why, you know, what actually is cognition. So I'm just gonna click this, let's have a look at that. Cognition refers to the mental action or process of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience, and the senses. Many aspects of intellectual functions and processes such as attention, formation of knowledge, memory, working memory, judgment and evaluation, reasoning and computation, problem solving, decision making. So cognitive processes use existing knowledge and generate new knowledge. So now in my mind, I've got something that looks like this. Okay, I've got something that looks like this. We've got the idea of cognition. And cognition is basically what does pretty much like everything in our brains. I'm just going to represent that by a star because I don't want to write down this whole list of things because I'm not worried about memorizing it. If I did need to memorize this entire list I would use a memorization aid, something that we'll go through in the later camps. I will look at different ways that we can memorize something like this. However for now, especially in my mind map, I would just write something like a star just to show because I don't think I'm gonna forget what cognition means. It basically means all types of thinking. But I do like the idea of using existing knowledge and generating new knowledge. So I'm gonna do something like Draw a little thing here and this represents old knowledge Plus also new knowledge. So I'm gonna do like a little You know like new or something like that like connections forming to a new piece of knowledge Okay, cool. And then metacognition obviously comes into that And this is the way that it makes sense for me at the moment, okay? And hopefully that this is probably the way that it makes sense for you right now as well. Metacognition leading to cognition. And that's very important, I think. Okay, so I think I understand cognition enough now. Let's go to metamemory. Well, I remember reading that metamemory is an important part of metacognition. So it's gonna be like one of the sub parts of it. I'm just gonna do that in blue. So I remember that's sort of like a sub concept. Even though I've written it on the same line here, This really should be indented because this is a form of metacognition. Mnemonic strategies, that was another example underneath metacognition, I remember reading that. Cognitive development. Okay, cognitive development. So the question to first ask is obviously, what is cognitive development? And I'm thinking it's probably the development of cognition, right? It means how children think, explore, and figure things out is the development of knowledge. Brain development is part of cognitive development. Cognitive development is a field of study in neuroscience and psychology, blah, blah, focusing on a child's development in terms of... Okay, so obviously cognitive development is simply the development of cognition. Okay, so it kind of, I would say, goes like this. It doesn't seem like as much of a major point though, so I'm not going to put it in a square because I don't want to emphasize that too much. Fluid intelligence. What is fluid intelligence? Now I don't need to ask the question of why is cognitive development important because for me it's quite obvious why it's important. It's important because cognition is important. So cognitive development has implications for cognition. But I think that's very straightforward. Fluid intelligence is the ability to perceive relationships independent of previous specific or instruction concerning those relationship. Versus crystallized intelligence. Okay, this seems interesting. So let's read that a little bit more. So we've got different types of intelligence. Now I'm reading this and in my mind I'm thinking, how is this related? How is intelligence related to cognition? And in fact, I'm so curious about this right now. I'm actually going to look that up first. How is intelligence different from cognition? Cognitive ability is the same as intelligence. That's what I'm looking for. There's another one below that, actually, as well. Cognitive abilities can be trained and improved. Intelligence is a score on a test that stays relatively static in adulthood. So answer is not exactly there related to time, but not the same thing. Cognitive abilities are the brain-based skills and mental processes. And I'm guessing intelligence is kind of like more something that's inherent. Measure your ability to understand ideas. So it looks like intelligence is more sort of like a status and it's something that's really, something that's a little bit more artificial. Yeah, cognition is the process of acquiring knowledge Intelligence is the ability to easily learn and understand things and deal with new or difficult situations. So it looks like cognition is like the skill involved, which is kind of hand in hand with intelligence, which is the kind of ability, right? So I'm saying cognition is a skill, is a process. Intelligence is the ability. So you're channeling the ability with your skills and processes. That makes sense. It's like how fast the car is versus your skill to drive the car. Cool. And I know that based on what I just read, that there are actually two types of intelligence. We had fluid intelligence and we had a crystallized intelligence. And I already have an idea about what that means just based on the names of it. But let's have a look. Fluid intelligence is the ability to reason and think flexibly. crystallized as the accumulation of knowledge. Okay, so this is more like facts plus existing knowledge and then this is more like ability to think flexibly. Now as I write this I'm thinking okay fluid intelligence, Ability to think flexibly seems like that would be a skill So I'm thinking that these two are actually related fluid intelligence and cognition. I Feel they might be related. So I'm actually gonna read about that now. What is the difference between fluid intelligence and cognition And I'm not seeing anything that really tells me straight off the bat, I'm guessing that they're gonna be very related. I'm gonna park that, I'm gonna have that in my mind as like, maybe there's something there and I'll come back to that later. But I'm thinking later I might wanna do this mind map again and have this maybe a little bit closer, maybe the arrows are coming out like this and like this, so I can create a connection between cognition and fluid intelligence. So it would end up looking something like this, I'd have crystallized out here, But fluid would be out here so that I can create a connection like that, because if these two things are actually connected. But anyway, for now, I've already done it this way, so I'll just leave that as it is. And we'll keep going. Okay, so where was I up to? So I've done cognitive development, I've done fluid intelligence, types of metacognitive knowledge. Okay, where does metacognitive knowledge fit into this? So we've been looking at cognition the entire time. I would say that understanding different types of intelligence is part of metacognition, in fact. And then different types of metacognitive knowledge. So, metamemory and mnemonic strategies, which we've got up here, I feel like they probably are going to fit under the different types of metacognitive knowledge. But I know that there are three different subtypes below that as well, So it might be a bigger category. It's worth me just having a look at that. So let's go to the types. And I think it was right here. Types of metacognitive. So notice that I basically skipped this whole area because why am I going to read it? Do I read it purely because it's there? No. What? Would I have wanted to read that? Do I know what this paragraph is even about? No. Does my brain want to know? No. So why would I read it? There is no reason, which is why I'm not going to. This is order control. Some types of metacognitive knowledge would include content knowledge, which is declarative, which is understanding one's own capabilities, such as a student evaluating their own knowledge of a subject in class. Okay, now that's very similar to what I thought of as metacognition in general. So I'm now really curious as to know how that's different to task knowledge and strategic knowledge, okay? So task knowledge, procedural knowledge, is how one perceives the difficulty of a task. Okay, so, okay. So the study mentioned in content knowledge also deals with a person's ability to evaluate the difficulty of task-related overall performance. The accuracy of this knowledge was skewed as students who thought their way was better or easier also seemed to perform worse on evaluations, while students who were rigorously and continually evaluated reported to not be as confident but still better on initial evaluations. Feel free to pause this video and just read that sentence yourself just to keep it in your head, not keep it in here, but just process that. But this means that this, I can understand this really easily personally because there are so many situations where I'll be teaching someone how to study and they think their way of doing it is right and they do so much worse than people that are more open-minded. So I kind of feel like I understand this now. So task knowledge is procedural knowledge. It's how one perceives the difficulty of the task. Content knowledge is understanding your own capabilities or the extent of your knowledge in a subject. And in my mind, what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to sort of visualize this because I want to put it on my mind map somehow. I'm thinking about how it all connects together and how it sort of fits in relation to this wider picture that I've got. Strategic knowledge is conditional knowledge, which is one's own capability for using strategies to learn information, okay? So this is capability of using strategies to learn information. So it's kind of like in my mind, I'm looking at something that looks like this. We've got strategic knowledge, and the skills from strategic knowledge are applied to allowing us to learn new information. Whereas understanding the amount of information you have is content knowledge, and then understanding the difficulty of a task, maybe the understanding the difficulty of, maybe this process of trying to learn something, that is task knowledge. Okay, so this is kind of how it makes sense for me. We've got information in the middle, strategic is your knowledge and skill at acquiring new information, content is understanding what you've got, and task is understanding how difficult or your perception of difficulty of that. Now straight away I see that there's a connection between strategic here and cognition here, which is a skill and the process, right? So I know that I need to make a link there, but metacognition is up here. So I'm gonna arrange this like this. Let me just erase this, and then I'm gonna arrange it like this, 'cause I was just drawing that just to help my brain think about it a little bit. But now that I know what it looks like, I wanna arrange it like this. I'm going to say that there are actually different types. I'm going to put the types over here. And I'm going to put that in terms of the-- I'm going to call this knowledge over here, because cognition is a skill to create knowledge. And then I'm going to say that there is this bit right here. I'm going to put that like this. And I'm going to say that this is task level knowledge. Task knowledge-- sorry, strategic knowledge. Strategic. And then evaluating what you already have, I'm going to say that's content. And then looking at the difficulty of this strategy that is task. So we've got the three different tasks-- three different types of metacognition like that. Okay, I'm gonna need to clean that up because it's looking a little messy to me. Increase the spacing and things a little bit more. But for now, it's just to track my understanding, so that's fine. Okay, I feel like I've got a decent understanding of the task, the types of knowledge. And I also have an understanding of why it's important because obviously, the level of knowledge you have, your strategies, your perceived difficulty of it is gonna affect your ability to learn new knowledge and do the cognition, which was, you know, basically all your thinking, which is obviously very important for you to use your intelligence and that's why the different types of metacognition are important. So you see how because everything I'm putting down I'm relating it from the very very first instance I'm always looking at how it relates and why it's important so everything is always relevant straight away it's relevant from the very get-go. So my retention is already high and it stays high and what you're going to notice is that things will start getting faster things will start getting faster as I actually feel like I want to know how meta-memory and mnemonic strategies fit into this as well. So I'm going to go back up to meta-memory and mnemonic strategies, especially important forms of cognition. So let's just go into that. There's a type of meta-cognition, and it's both the introspective knowledge of one's own memory capabilities, and strategies that can aid memory, and the processes involved in memory self-monitoring. Hmm, that's interesting. So there's obviously a lot, I'm just looking for the contents page and the size of the scroll bar. There's obviously a lot to know about this and I'm not interested in going into it in detail, but just even looking at the sort of heading names, I can see different hypotheses, different phenomena, things about improving memory. So this is, metamemory obviously seems to be the knowledge to do with memory and forming memory. So I'm trying to think how metamemory relates to the different types of metacognition. And in my mind, while I've been speaking, I've been thinking about this, and I don't have a clear idea yet about how it all connects together. I'm not sure whether metamemory is multiple types of metacognition combined in one field, so it sort of mutually overlaps, or whether it cleanly fits into one. So I'm actually gonna just Google this directly. I'm gonna say, what type of metacognition is metamemory? I feel like I'm not gonna get a good result here. Metamemory is a sub area of the area of metacognition. We already knew that. So it seems like it doesn't fit directly into the types of metacognition that are given here, But metamemory is almost a different way of categorizing metacognition. So metacognition can be categorized in terms of different types, but it can also be categorized in terms of different applications and functions of metacognition, which makes sense. So I'm going to actually put that like this, because it's like a subset. And I'm going to say metamemory fits there as one example of that. In fact, I'm going to make this arrow the opposite way around because it actually is an example of the knowledge. Okay, and then mnemonic. Mnemonic is, I read actually very briefly before, is part of metamemory. So I've got mnemonic down there. Okay, good, that's what I'm looking like now. And so, okay, look, just see already how connected this is, right? And you see how I'm going constantly between the aim and shoot, I'm constantly asking these questions, and I'm just asking the questions of what is it, Why is it important and how does it relate? But I'm always doing that. Notice how I'm never getting sucked into the detail. I'm never letting myself read something purely because it's there to be read. I'm only reading anything if it helps me understand what I need to know. So the next thing that I wanna move on to is the auto-noetic, I'm sure I'm not pronouncing that correctly, consciousness and self-awareness, okay? So let's have a look at that. Now, that was on this page somewhere, I'm pretty sure. Water, yeah, there we go. So metacognition is a general term encompassing the study of memory monitoring and self-regulation, meta-reasoning, consciousness. Okay, so I can see based on this, meta-memory is basically this part here, which means that if this is in the same sentence, probably auto-noetic consciousness and self-awareness is another example of the metacognition. So it's probably gonna come out of here like this. So I'm pretty confident about that, Let's click on this just to learn a little bit more is the human ability to mentally place oneself in the past and future mental time travel, okay Side note that's super cool. The fact that we have something called mental time travel I'm just interested in this so you know what I'm probably gonna end up just reading this page just out of pure interest until I get bored But that's cool. I think that's really cool. So I think this is interesting because okay, so obviously And honestly, there are some connections that can be made here because something like your perceived understanding of how difficult a strategy is, that probably is going to have to do at least in part to how difficult you think a certain task is based on your previous experience of it, which may require some mental time travel. So I think that's interesting. I think that's an interesting thing. I'll just park that thought, but auto No, we take Meta consciousness, sorry, what are no we take consciousness? As a subset of it which is written relation to time which is super cool, okay, so just run a little clock there And in my mind, I'm thinking okay there's got to be a link between this and this. And actually, as I'm looking at this, I'm seeing that there's probably a link between this and metamemory as well. And I'm starting to get the idea that all of this is gonna link together a lot, probably so much that I'm not gonna be able to really represent that on a mind map anyway. However, even just the fact that I'm thinking about this is already increasing my retention. So I've memorized what auto-nervated consciousness is. I'm probably never gonna forget that for the rest of my life, purely because it wasn't a random thing to memorize, I was thinking about how it fits. But I feel like I know enough about that to move on at the moment. And I'm not getting into the detail yet. I'm not getting into the detail. So you can see I'm still keeping a very big picture. So the next thing that I go is prefrontal cortex. So now I need to learn about the prefrontal cortex. And I know that's a part of the brain. And Google Images tends to be a really great, fast way of seeing like this type of finding an image like this, you know, that's it just saves me a lot of time. Prefrontal cortex, empathy, insight, response, flexibility, and I'm not trying to memorize this list. I'm trying to get an understanding about what it is so I know how to think about it because I only need to know what it is to the point where I can ask why is it important. Let me repeat that. I only need to know what it is just so much so that I can answer the question of why is it important and how does it relate. Thinking about thinking. Okay, so this is obviously about metacognition. Prefrontal cortex. Okay, so really what we're talking about is the fact that metacognition is a function of the prefrontal cortex, okay? Which is part of the brain. Okay, and it's got a bunch of other functions. And I don't care about the other functions yet. I'll go into that later. I'm not ready to learn that now because it's too detailed. I want to keep moving on. Executive functions, so I think I may have actually just read the word executive functions on this now. So I'm actually gonna search for prefrontal cortex executive functions to see if there was a link there. I'm gonna go back to images here to see if there's anything I can see. This is the one that I was looking at. Executive, so I read the word executive function here but here I It's not listed here as such. Executive function. Okay, prefrontal cortex is responsible for executive function. An important role in cognitive control is involved in supervisory attention. Okay, so basically it's saying that cognition, metacognition, all the stuff we've been learning right now, that's done by the prefrontal cortex and that is actually called executive function. Okay, that makes sense to me. Let's move on. Now at this point, it's very, you know, if you're not already, it will be overwhelming. You've got so many things on your mind map now, and there's so much you don't know. You're now approaching the point where you feel like you're overwhelmed by the amount of knowledge you don't have. It's very normal. What I'm simply doing is I'm just tolerating that feeling, and I'm just saying, "Look, it's going to click together eventually, and by spending time doing this now, it's actually going to make it much easier for me later on." So I keep going. I've done that. Social metacognition. Right now, I'm already thinking, look, social metacognition is probably metacognition about social settings. Okay, like dealing with people probably, right? About others' mental processes, the influence of culture on those beliefs and on beliefs about ourselves. Social metacognition includes ideas and perceptions that relate to social cognition, which is subtopic of various parts of the thing. How people process or apply information about other people in social situations. So it's exactly what I thought it was. So social metacognition is exactly what I thought it was. So we're talking about knowledge, okay, and now we're talking about another type of metacognition, which is social metacognition, which is us understanding how other people might be thinking. Thinking about the thinking of other people. Okay, so I'm gonna say social which I don't I'm not even write anything more because it's just too obvious at this stage Okay, and I've got underneath here two things attitudes and stereotypes now I know already that that attitude is probably gonna be talking about how our attitudes towards people affects the way that they think or their attitudes if I Know it's gonna be talking about the idea that like your attitude or something to do with attitudes affects you're thinking like there is a lot of curiosity there. I feel like whatever I read is going to just make sense. It's going to be pretty obvious. Stereotypes, similarly, I feel like I generally understand that. So I'm not even going to read about that because I feel that that will be relatively easy for me to just process and just get in my brain. So I don't think that's going to be important because I'm pretty sure that's just going to come off of here anyway. We're just going to get two examples of social metacognition, one which is stereotypes and the other which is attitudes. So I'll just jot that down, but I'm not gonna read about it at all, because I'm very confident that it's gonna be pretty self-explanatory. Self-concept. Okay, let's look at self-concept. Let's see, can be examining theories about the self, theories about the self about how the self operates. OK, we've got things here called entity theory and incrementalist theory. Now, those are two new words. Am I going to put that on my mind map? Look, I could, but at the moment, I just want to get the basic idea first. I'm just going to leave that for now. I just want to-- this paragraph is just taking me too long to read, and I can't be bothered. So I'm just going to search up, what is self-concept? One self-concept is collections of beliefs about oneself. Okay, great, good. So based on that, I know that it's a type of content metacognition, which is referring to yourself. Okay, so that's, okay. So we've basically got two different juxtapositions. We've got knowledge about yourself and knowledge about others, which is social. Cool. And self, and this is probably talking about self in answer to the idea of who am I. So this is not self as in like your memory or your past and present. It's about like you existentially. So it's like self. I'm gonna write a, who am I up here? Tell me, remember that that's different. But I don't really need that. It's pretty self-explanatory in itself. Okay. So I'm not gonna go through the entire list, Because I think by now you should see how it works. I'm just saying what is it? Why is it important? How does it relate and I'm doing that every single step the main things that I'm doing right now. I'm making sure number one that I'm strictly following the questions Number two is that I'm not going into details if I don't feel like it helps me answer the question Okay, and number three I'm exercising order control very explicitly and that I'm not letting myself get sucked into reading anything if it's not answering the questions. And I'm constantly keeping myself, number four, in tune with my own sense of curiosity and what I want to know, which is dictated by the question. So you can see how important that aim step is and maintain, when I say you need to maintain that aim step throughout your entire shoot, this is what I'm talking about. Now right now, I've been asking the questions out loud as I've been going rather than writing them down. When you first write the questions, you can use those questions as your prompts, But as you learn more you're gonna get new questions that you didn't think of before and then so you just navigate that very fluidly It's very easy. You have questions. You've already written up you go answer those you learn a little bit more you think oh How does that relate you then go and learn a little bit more about other types of? questions and other types of knowledge and so you have like a starting a springboard from your initial aim step questions, and then you're catapulting from that to the next Next level of knowledge because your questions are not going to be more and more specific. Okay, so that's basically how this works We do this until we've covered the entire topic and obviously we're gonna get a pretty big mind map by the end of this But you can see that what we're forming at the moment is inherently already very connected And it's like of course it would be it makes sense It'll be weird for it not to be given how connected it is in our heads, right? So it's a mind map the map of your mind. It's a map of your mind So of course because it's interconnected in my head because I've been really you know, I've been a good boy sticking to my questions It's gonna make sense out here as well. I simply repeat this process Until I finished all of these by the time I get to here the end of it I'll look at this my map and think okay. I Have a ton of questions about the details. Like how does it work? I All of the things that I briefly skimmed through that I didn't go back to, I need to be able to recall that. I want to be able to have 100% retention on all of that. Now though, I see how it all works. I see the purpose behind the knowledge. So I'm going to do the exact same process again, but now with the sub-concepts. I'm going to go through it again and think, okay, so let's go and start adding on a little bit more detail. What are the areas that I'm really interested in? So, okay, what were the different types of metacognition exactly? And the thing is, because we're constantly relating back to it, we're gonna build an understanding of this detail without even trying to. So I've thought about how it relates to the different types of metacognition so many times throughout making this mind map, even though I never went any deeper than just the basic logic level, I feel like I completely already understand content task and strategic types of better cognition now purely because I've gone back to that and thought about it so many times so what that actually does is it reduces the amount you actually need to even memorize because more and more stuff becomes just obvious and intuitive and it just logically makes sense and you know you're never going to forget it because there's like 10 different other pieces of information that are hinging upon you understanding what that is so it's just unlikely you're gonna forget it because it's so interconnected. So look, not only am I achieving the benefit of one, reducing the amount of detail I need to actually memorize, number two, I've actually increased my retention without even trying to increase my retention, and then number three, I'm able to learn and go through all the detail and when I do that it's gonna make a lot more sense, it's gonna be a lot more logical. And so when you see me go through the other different subjects, remember when I talk Talk about the aim shoot cycle going back and forth. This is what I'm talking about. This is what I'm referencing and so Just keep that in mind as that is how I've been able to create all those mind maps is exactly the same process I'm not doing anything differently to what I've just shown you it's Exactly that I'm just asking those questions And I'm doing layer by layer and then going to the deeper concept the concept after that and the concept after that so on and so forth until I'm very happy and comfortable with the knowledge and Naturally by the end of that I will have understood a lot of things and anything I didn't pick up along the way and I didn't have my mind map I then apply my revision techniques and my memorization aids so I get what I hundred percent hundred and fifty percent get Full retention on that no gaps. No weaknesses a perfect full complete system And we'll teach you that and the later camps as well but this is the aim shoot cycle. Keep that in mind as you see me do some of the subject specific ones.