(Aksiy the topic, you've got all your resources. When you do the aim step, you create curiosity. You've got questions, especially those why and how does it relate questions. We're building potential scaffolding for relationships and structure. After that, we're then gonna shoot. We're answering those questions and trying to figure it out in our mind, especially, number one, starting with building that basic logic, and then going back to look at building those concepts, and then going back, adding in those important details. Now, at this stage, we've got arbitrary details left over that we need to just rote learn and memorize. For now, until I teach you what to do with that a little bit more effectively, just chuck them on flashcards or a Google Doc or something, it doesn't really matter yet. Most ways of rote learning are not extremely effective anyway until I teach you some of the really efficient techniques later on. But for now, you shouldn't have too many things to rote learn anymore, because actually a lot of it just makes sense based on your logic concepts and important details, and it should be on your mind map, which means that if you had normally 50 flashcards to make, Now you'll only have 10 or 20 flashcards, so we've cut down on the amount of memorization by quite a lot, okay? So you can do whatever you want with that at the moment. Digital flashcards, something like Anki or Quizlet, is something that I would just recommend, okay? We'll come back to that later. But by now, we may be missing the very, very specific recall on those details, but we've got a pretty solid understanding of the big picture, how those concepts work, And it should start feeling like the topic makes a lot of sense. In fact, you should already start feeling like you're getting a pretty decent level of retention here. You might have done the aim step before learning it in class, maybe before the term even began. You might have done the shoot step again at any time really. You could have done it during class and then carried it on, adding on more concepts. So you might have done layer one and bits of layer two during class. You come home later that day and you finish off layer two and add bits of layer three or even layer four. You might've even carried it on into the weekend to finish off the layers that you're able to do. So it's pretty flexible. You could do all of aim and shoot before you even learn it, just using your course guides or other resources that you've got available. You know, it's very flexible what you can do with this. Remember, you're taking control of the learning the way that you need to. So, after you have done this, then what's the next step? Well, the next step is to really consolidate this knowledge and bring ourselves to a higher level of knowledge mastery. And a higher level of knowledge mastery basically means that you're better able to answer questions, nail those exams, really hit those curveball questions out of the park, and overall, just feel much more comfortable with the topic. And that's what the skin step is for. The skin step allows us to really drive up our retention even more and get ourselves extremely comfortable and confident with the content. So let's have a look at what's happening in our brain when we do the skin step. And what I wanna draw your attention to is actually this thing called Bloom's taxonomy. You may have heard of this before. It's pretty well known. But Bloom's taxonomy is basically a hierarchy for the mastery of knowledge. So this is the top of the pyramid, obviously. This is the bottom. This is the lowest level. This is the highest level of mastery. Let's have a look at what each of these different levels of mastery actually equate to in terms of the results that you'd get and what these types of students would actually feel like. So at the lowest level, we have memorization. Memorization means that you're able to list everything out. You're able to remember and describe specific facts. You're able to recall details. The way that people study in order to achieve memorization is often through repetition. It's tedious, it's very time consuming. Okay, time plus plus. That's memorization. Students who focus their learning at this level and only achieve this are the ones that are likely to barely pass, or if they do pass, really do actually struggle a lot. So they spend a lot of time studying. Studying is not enjoyable whatsoever. These are the people that are grinding out constantly. And actually, most of the time, these students are the ones that would actually fail. So you, given that you're actually on this course, potentially are not at this level. The next level above memorization, right? So that's level one. Level two, this is understanding. Now you may have heard the saying, it's one thing to know and another thing to understand. And that real learning is about understanding it. Well, this is not exactly true. As you can see, it's only level two of six possible levels. And actually, the understanding, what that means is that this person is able to explain something. they can have a discussion around it. They are able to really converse about this and really elaborate on their points. So if you understand something, you can explain it. That makes sense, right? So how do people that get to this level study? People that get to an understanding level, they study through much the same as the memorization people, but they take it to another level where they might do maybe some practice, maybe they might try to paraphrase, maybe they'll try active recall a little bit more, and active recall is used in both of these. So this is when we have a very minimal amount, minimal processing, okay? Minimal processing. There is an attempt to try to understand. We're trying to understand how it works. And so we paraphrase and do things like this. Okay, reading and rereading to figure it out and just try to understand how it works. And this is the part that takes a long time for most students. This is a part that takes a long time for most students. And this is where most students will get stuck at. And so most high achieving students, well, relatively high achieving students, I actually hear. So what does this look like? These students are often in the sort of top 30% of achievement. They are not really at risk of failing, but they don't really get the top, top marks. Okay, they also spend quite a lot of time trying to learn. And again, it doesn't tend to be enjoyable, But they do still have these occasional light bulb moments which feel really good because it suddenly clicks and makes sense. But it doesn't happen that frequently. So that's level two. What about level three? You can see at level three, it's green. The reason I've made it green is because level three is the first part in which we are using our brain as per the cave theory. Level three is application, okay? Being able to apply your knowledge. So that means that you can actually use what you've understood to solve problems, okay? You can apply the knowledge to other types of content. So outside of just what you learned, you can actually now use the understanding. Now, remember what I said before, that in order to actually learn something, right? Learning equals being able to at least apply the information, okay? Retain the information and then apply it. You need to be able to use the information for there to be learning. Remember also what I said about the cave theory, in that the brain has a checklist and that it thinks it's relevant. It will increase the number of connections. It will make it more meaningful and it will create more relationships. It's more likely to be retained if it fulfills a problem solving criteria forming criteria. So applying the knowledge is part of problem solving. So wait a second, if the cave theory says that this is how we should do all of our learning, or at least as much as possible, and if learning means to apply it, doesn't that mean that this is the first level in which learning is actually happening efficiently? And the answer is yes. The answer is yes, which is why, amazingly, what we know is that this level is the minimum level at which your brain is actually being used efficiently, and that's why it's green, because we wanna be above this level at all times. Now, you might think, "Well, Justin, How is it possible to be above the level at all times? How can you apply something that you don't even understand or you can't even recall? And that's true. You can't. But there's a difference between what you're trying to do versus what your brain will do. Here's what I mean. If you try to memorize something, it's very difficult. If you try to understand it, you will end up memorizing it more easily. That's just how your brain works. But if you try to apply it, you will understand it more deeply. And what research has found, and this is the really amazing thing about the brain, honestly, it's fascinating the way that it works. What we have found is that your brain actually learns faster when you don't try to understand or memorize at all. Okay, let me say that again. If you skip this step, number one and two, and we wanna go straight to level three, which is applying, okay? If we try to apply our knowledge as early as possible, We don't even try to memorize or understand anything. We don't spend any effort. We have no intention of memorizing or understanding. We purely just want to apply things. We read a sentence and straight away, we try to use that to solve problems. And what that actually does is that it activates the cave theory of learning straight away. It activates that inquiry-based learning, okay? Inquiry-based learning gets activated straight away. And what our brain will do is that it will actually fill in the gaps underneath it. It will understand and memorize it more easily. Okay? So, counterintuitively, we don't actually need to try to memorize or understand anything in order to memorize and understand it. In fact, even more counterintuitively, trying to not memorize and trying to not understand and instead trying to jump straight to applying it as soon as possible activates such a more efficient learning pattern in our brain, that we will end up understanding and memorizing it better than if we had actually tried to memorize and understand it in the first place, okay? It's a bit of a mind twist, but it basically means skipping steps one and step number two, and going straight to step three here, actually allows you to do number one and number two better than if you were to try to actually spend time here. So, here's the thing, And this is the important thing here, right? Is that, okay, number one, applying it, thinking of problems, applying information to problems, that's what we set ourselves up to do in the AIM step. Do you see that? What the AIM step does is that it forces us to get to here from the very beginning. How does it do that? Because we are doing it before we've actually understood what we're making questions about. By making questions first, we force our brain up here instead of trudging through all of this very slowly. The aim step activates problem solving because we are creating problems and trying to apply knowledge that we don't even have yet. And then by trying to solve these problems straight away, we are applying the information immediately. Okay, we're applying the information immediately. And remember, this is not me making stuff up. This is Bloom's taxonomy. This is extremely well studied in research. I encourage you to look it up more yourself. So after aiming, when we shoot, the shoot step is activating this part of our brain directly, which is why it actually helps us understand and memorize it much faster, okay? So that's how it works, and that's why the mind map is done that way, and that's why the layers of learning exist as well for this purpose. that helps our brain jump straight to this level. And it does feel a little bit concerning when you first do it, 'cause it's just like, oh, I feel a little, you know, it's like, I feel like I really should be taking things from the bottom and going up progressively, but it's one of those situations where actually it's better to just jump, aim higher, and you will land higher. It really, really does work. And actually, this phenomenon is so powerful and actually so unknown. It's kind of like a secret of learning that so few people know. There's actually a best-selling book based on this, and this is actually called "Ultra Learning." And very few people are aware of this, even though it's, you know, I'm not actually sure why so few people are aware of this. It's extremely well-studied, and we have known about this for at least decades. So a lot of people still don't know, but this can be your secret weapon, your hidden unfair advantage against all the other students that you're competing against, is to go straight to here. So anyway, so people that jump straight to here, okay, what do they look like? So they're usually achieving results in the top 10%. They are the first step at which the time that's spent is much less. And you can see why, because your brain is learning at a higher efficiency, therefore, you're spending less time trying to figure it out, okay? You're able to understand it much faster because your brain is operating at a higher gear. And also your retention is higher. So therefore you're doing less relearning, which is obviously saving time. So all of that good stuff that I've been talking about this entire time, that really starts here. When we jump straight to here, straight away, after every sentence, after every word, if it's possible, you wanna really try to apply that to solve problems, okay? So that's what it looks like, top 10%. Right now I've joined these arrows here together Three and four often come kind of similarly in terms of what their achievement is. Number four, this is actually analyze Okay, or analysis. So analysis, what that means is that we're able to compare ideas or concepts against each other. Okay, we're able to contrast, find similarities and differences. So each other, contrasting them with each other, finding how they are related. So at this point we are activating the relationships more strongly. We're focusing on the relationships more strongly. Okay, so how do we get to an application point of view? People spend a lot of time here problem-solving. That's study techniques are based around. It's different types of problem solving. And the key thing is it happens as early as possible. They don't wait until just before the exam to do just a bunch of past papers, practice questions. They go into problem solving even before they've learned the topic. I know it sounds crazy, but it works. People here at the relationships part, what are they doing? These people, they're looking at doing mind maps, but not just any mind maps, mind maps that are prioritizing the relationships. Okay, they're looking to see how they can form those relationships a little bit more clearly. And they're trying to really focus on the relationships even in the problem solving. So they're not just problem solving in terms of the bad, what questions. They are asking those questions in terms of how does it relate? How is it all connected? They're asking these questions, okay? and they're achieving results in the top 10% and their amount of time is much, much less, okay? Much, much less than people before. So there's really quite a clean line drawn kind of here. People above this line, I would say in the realm of efficient studying, people below this line, so all these people here, they're in the realm of beginner, low level efficiency studying. This is obviously not where you wanna be. You wanna be at least here and above. So what's the step above that? Well, the step above this is level number five, which is evaluation, being able to evaluate ideas. So evaluating ideas mean that you can actually weigh and critique and, and I'm gonna run out of space here, prioritize, okay, prioritize different concepts against each other. So it's like analysis, but even better than analysis, 'Cause we're not just looking at how are the relationships connected and how are the different ideas and concepts related to each other. We're now thinking, which relationships, okay? Which concepts are the most important? Okay? We're thinking, okay, we've got concept number one versus concept number two. I think concept number one is slightly more important in some cases, whereas concept number two is more important if it comes along with concept number three. So we're not just able to compare and contrast it, we're actually able to weigh, critique, and prioritize different ideas against each other. So we have a really solid understanding of these relationships. And here it might still be surface level relationships, still better than down here where the relationships don't exist. But up here, our knowledge is heavily relational. And so you can see that the questions that are being asked here is, why is this important? These are the questions. So you can see how that aim step is aiming to drive us up here in this green zone. The aim step forces our brain to work at layers three, four, and five. And okay, here's the thing. You really want to be at level five as much as possible, but it's just, it's not really possible to be up here all the time. So what I actually find with real life and students is that you're kind of always going up and down, three, four, five, three, four, five. You're going up and down this point. But the thing that most students struggle with is actually getting to this point. People can go back and forth between here, but information can get quite overwhelming if you don't try to prioritize certain ideas over others because the relationships all become sort of a mess. And so those mind maps that we saw before, where yeah, there were a lot of arrows going back and forth between them, but it wasn't clean, right? The relationships weren't clean. It almost seemed a bit chaotic. The connections and relationships certainly existed, but it was kind of everywhere, right? Well, people that do this step up here, This is when those relationships start looking clean. There's a clear flow. You can clearly see the purpose behind the concepts and how it all relates together. Okay, this is the evaluation step. And students at this step, they are usually achieving in the top 1%. They spend very, very, very little time studying because their mind is working so much more efficiently. And remember, this has nothing to do with intelligence. This is all a skill. These are all skills, all of these. These are skills that you can learn that I have taught you. Okay? And you can all do this. So students up here are operating in that top 1%. These are the results they're getting. They are actually finding learning to be enjoyable because they're discovering things. And that light bulb moment that I mentioned before that students don't often get, these students are getting these moments constantly. again and again and again, they're able to turn these light bulb moments on voluntarily, okay? So they have a light bulb moment with every single subject. What's their easiest subject? Every subject is their easiest subject. So these are the students at which I'd say, this is a high level learner. So when I say high level learner, I'm talking about high level up here. Low level learners, mid level learners, high level learners up here, okay? Now, what is the bit at the top, the very, very, you know, the pinnacle? This is number six, which is to create. And it really does mean that people that are at this level, they are able to, well, create new ideas or sort of conjecture, which is like to hypothesize new things, okay? So these people are able to use their knowledge of all of this to actually create new and original ideas. So where do you find people like this? These are usually people that are doing their PhDs, PhD, H-t-p, small, PhDs. These are normally people that are truly experts in the field. It takes a long time to go from here to here. There's a big difference, even though it's only one level of difference. It's a big jump. This is a level that a lot of students will not reach for years of learning that subject. You should still try to reach this. I recommend students that are comfortable with this stage to play around with this in their revision. And I will introduce techniques later on that allow you to do this really for the experts, but it's just not something that's number one, really necessary to reach because it is a very high level. And also you've got enough on your plate, just trying to reach here and stay here as often as possible. So I'm not really going to focus too much of this until I get to really more advanced techniques for students that are already comfortable with all of this here. So this is really a peak apex level learner and you can do a lot of, there's a lot of really fun, interesting study techniques that are extremely efficient that we can apply if you're at that level, but I'm not really going to cover that right now. So this is now looking at that top 0.1% or even less than that. So these people, learning is very easy for them. They don't need to spend virtually any effort in actually learning things. They are able to learn things much faster than a normal person would be able to. Their retention will be at 90% and above every time they learn anything new. They're extremely in control of their learning and academic challenge is just not something that exists for them. I would say that this is a point where maybe your actual IQ does make a bit of a difference whether you can get there or not. But below this, all of this, this is just skill. Okay, so it doesn't matter if you could be failing before, even if you're down here, look, it's possible to get up here. Yeah, it'll take longer than someone who's been living here their entire life, but consistent work, going through these steps and trying to use these techniques instead of these techniques will bring your brain up here and you will see the results. But remember, it will feel a bit challenging, but that difficulty is part of the learning process. And the aim and shoot steps, the aim step tries to get you up here as quickly as possible. So let's actually write that in so it's a bit more clear, right? So aim is, this is what aim does. Aim says we're aiming up here. We're aiming our brain to activate this level of learning. When we're shooting, we are usually actually in this stage here. Shooting is usually layers three and four, applying it and analyzing it, okay? Why is that, even though we've asked the question, why is it important while we're shooting it in our aim step? Why, even though we've asked this question, why is that? Well, remember I said at the beginning, when you do a mind map for the first time, it might be a bit chaotic? Well, that's kind of the thing, is that it's really difficult to get an extremely clean flow of ideas where you've really evaluated all the relationships to figure out which is the most important. It's really hard to weigh, critique, and prioritize all the concepts that you're learning in the first go. When you're first shooting, it's very difficult to get up here. And that's actually what the skin step is. The skin step is your chance to take that learning and bring it up, okay? The skin step allows you to take your mind map and clean it up. It allows you to...