Öncelikle, bu ölüm There are certain things that I need to put on flashcards. And that stuff will come later, and I'll talk about flashcards later as well. For now, you can use flashcards or whatever other way of memorization you're comfortable with, but for me, I just chucked it on flashcards. So this covers around about 90-95% of everything I'd need to know. There is a few things that I haven't put on there that would be on flashcards though. So now let's look at how we can skin this and actually create those better relationships. So if we look at the mind map, we can see that there are areas that there are a lot of connections, and it's a bit messy. Specifically around control, we can see that there's these arrows that don't look very clean. It's hard to kind of make out what's going on here, and this arrow crossing is not going to be as memorable, okay? Crossing arrows is generally something that we want to avoid. So let's simply just rearrange this and increase our chunking and See if we can chunk some of this stuff together. See if we can just space it out a little bit more so the arrows are a little bit cleaner because remember arrows represent relationships and relationships the key. So when we make arrows clearer, we're really prioritizing our relationships. Same thing's gonna go here and let's say okay this area here as well. Actually, this is a bit messy. This whole area can probably be cleaned up a bit. So I'm gonna go through this and I'm gonna see which areas can I clean up and And how can I make it just overall look a little bit neater, where the main flow of ideas is just easier to see. Because at the moment, it's hard to see the main flow. We can tell it's really connected, but it is a little bit messy. So all I'm going to do is I'm going to examine this. I'm going to see what can I chunk. I'm going to see, is there a different way that I can express things, an image that I can use? Is there a simpler way that I can make this? And often when we skin it, we realize that there are things that we might have written down initially, that by now are so obvious to us that we know we're never going to forget it. So we can actually just remove it. So for example, this capillaries, I've written here that it's the smallest vessel. But by the time I finish studying this, the fact that capillaries are the smallest is extremely obvious. And anyone who studied this subject will know that's not something that you're likely to forget. So, you know, the other thing like arteries taking blood away from the heart, you know, that's not something that you're likely to forget if you've learned it with this type of relationship. So now after I've skimmed it, this is what the mind map looks like. So you can see it looks very different and I want you to notice how much simpler it looks. So this is exactly the same mind map, there is exactly the same amount of information on this. This single mind map or rather this is at this point, this is a grind map. This is a grind map and I can study approved grind map. You can see that the main relationships are very clear, the arrows are very prominent. We can see the directionality of the topic. It's actually got all the core components of the original mind map, but look at how much cleaner that is. And that is actually exactly the same. And now compare to that, and that has all the information on there. Again, 90 to 95%. So look at that mind map, look how clean it is. So again, if you're familiar with this topic, feel free to freeze this frame and compare it to the previous one which was here and you'll see that truly everything is still the same structure so again we've still got a heart this cycle I've decided to represent certain concepts differently this messy area with whole exchange thing going on there and the pressure drop in the surface area increase around the capillaries this area here was this area so you can see look capillaries are involved in exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide. Surface area increases a lot because there's lots of branches, pressure goes down and it's slower, there are pores and it's single-celled which allow it to function in this exchange. So look at that, do you see exactly the same thing. Capillaries, I've removed the fact that it's the smallest, it's one cell, there's pores that functions in exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide. The pressure is going down as the surface area increases as the number of branches increases as well. So look, we've got all that same detail, right? So by doing this and increasing the chunking, and you'll notice that there are areas of better chunking. There's better chunking over here when it comes to coronary heart disease. There's better chunking when it comes over here to the control aspect. And you'll also notice that I've got more pictures. I've got little things like that that just make it more memorable. So it just pops out and sticks out of the page a little bit easier. Got a little man here exercising, little fight or flight response diagram here. So these types of little diagrams, they really help to just make things look simpler because I don't have to write so many words and it just makes the overall thing look cleaner as well. I've used another technique here where you can see where I've said diastole, which is relaxation. I've drawn like a little Sun inside the D. So I can imagine like a sunny diastole, help me realize that it's a sunny, relaxing day or something like that, that allows me to remember this. Now remember again, there is stuff here that needs to be, well not on here necessarily, but there's other stuff that's not included in this mind map that does need to go into flashcards or another memorization tool, which again we will cover pretty shortly, but for now you can just put them on flashcards, digital flashcards preferably. So things like this cardiac cycle, learning about what happens to each valve in the cardiac cycle, this is something that I might have in a flashcard, it's a very specific detail. There are certain little details on this that I might put onto flashcards, but honestly I don't feel the need to put a lot of it, maybe just a couple things here, a couple things here, literally two or three things here, but the rest of it is basic enough that I'm very, very comfortable with it. So that's how we've taken our understanding from an AIM step all the way through, shoot, and then we've skinned it. So hopefully we can see how this very clean, extremely relational, simple understanding of quite a complex topic with all the details has been built from that heim step. (뚜