So now we're going to skin this mind map on asexual reproduction, which we started off with the aim step here, asking those good questions, building a basic backbone, applying the concept onto that backbone, and now we're looking at how we can clean it up. So when we look at the skin step, we can see that there are these areas where more chunking can occur, right? queste quattro parti, qui c'è una, due, tre, quattro, cinque parti, quattro parti, quattro parti, quattro parti. Quindi tutte queste zone, penso che possiamo sbriciare di più. Perché come è ora, in questo punto, ci sarà ancora più difficile da ricordare, sarà più memorabile che il "linea notes" ma non sarà ancora così buona come dovrebbe essere una mappa di mente. Quindi facciamo una mappa di mine increasing our chunking and making our relationships just much more clear. So there's certain areas like this connection here, this is quite hard to remember, 'cause you can see it's kind of dodging in between the gap here. It's just not as memorable. So really from a spatial awareness point of view, I'm gonna wanna bring this thing about nuclear transfer. I wanna bring this nuclear transfer point somewhere around here so that the connection not so long and arduous. And I might rearrange a few of the other things as I chunk them into different types of categories. Now remember that again there is stuff that is not on this MyMap at the moment that we will have in flashcards or other memorization aids. So for now we can use flashcards or any other memorization tools you want to use. We will cover this in the later camps. However for now you can just rely on using your flashcards until we we cover those guidelines. This is about, I would say, around 90% of what is needed to be known in this topic. And the remaining 10% would go in as that rote learning memorization. So let's go ahead and skin this. And after we've done that, this is what the mind map looks like. So you can see how different it looks. But I want you to see, number one, how much cleaner and how much more it flows. You can see how much more it flows. So if we compare them back to back, We can see on this one, there are connections, but it's hard to see the general direction as much. And it does seem like it's just, it's very hedgehoggy, right? Like just spikes coming off of each individual point. Whereas here, it seems like there is a little bit more organization, right? So I've divided those different types. One, two, three, four, five. I've divided those five types into three different groups. And these are not official groups. There's just ways that make sense for me. So I thought we've got groups that are splitting basically, which is like fission or fragmentation. And then we've got groups that are like, it's kind of like traveling, like spores or budding. So these are just ways that I've organized it in my mind. You can see I've got little things here to remind me to make this point more memorable. And this type of stuff is always very good from a visual point of view. It just makes it pop and stick in your memory a little bit more easily. We did move nuclear transfer over here as well and to connect that to the failure rate idea. And we've made the advantages and disadvantages, basically three different advantages with a few examples and three disadvantages as well with some other examples which is a simplification from the original one where we had all these advantages separately and then the disadvantages coming off like this. it's much cleaner to look at, and it just looks like it's much simpler and more manageable. So this is that whole subject. And again, it's got exactly the same amount of detail as this one did, but straight away, you can see which one is cleaner and simpler, where this one, the relationships, you can tell are much better. So if you're familiar with this topic, you can pause this here and have a look at this and compare all the different changes that have been made in the skin step compared to the original mind map here. If you pay attention, you'll see that all of these areas have actually been chunked and organized a little bit better. So maybe you can just pause this, have a look at how you might chunk these areas, and then compare that to how I have chunked these in here. So you can see the chunking here, here, here. In fact, this is a good point here, is that I've actually got overlapping chunks. So I've actually chunked cloning into plants and animal type techniques. And I've actually chunked this area as well again into lab techniques, one, two, and three, whereas these are not lab techniques. So I've actually chunked it two different ways, which is not something that you can do often, but I did see an opportunity for it. And when you do see an opportunity for it, it does add different dimension to the relationships. So it is quite a handy thing to keep in mind is that sometimes you can find multiple types of patterns. So there's that trigger word right now. What we're doing is we're looking at creating patterns. That's checking that box in our mind based on that cave theory. So I could find a pattern between some of these things that allowed me to group it like plants. But I also found a pattern between these things, which allowed me to group it in terms of lab techniques. So I did both. I grouped it in terms of plants versus animals. But I also grouped it in terms of lab versus not lab techniques. So this is another way that we can organize it. 高架化された建物 私はあ なた (people chatting) (whistle blowing)