So, by the end of the shoot step for the chemistry study number one we got this mind map, two mind maps. Now, we're going to skin this. So, we can look straight away. Now, the first one here honestly, I feel like this is pretty well done. I don't see too many multiple branches. It looks relatively clean and pretty simple so I'm actually happy with this. But this one is messy, okay. And we can see that there are all these areas here that are messy. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna rearrange these so it makes more sense. I'm gonna put the hydrogen bonds probably somewhere out here so that it's not like overlapping with all these lines. Generally having lines intersecting like this is not good. That's a no-no because it's much harder to remember and it looks more confusing. This connection here is just impossible to remember 'cause it's dodging through everything. This is not relationships being prioritized. So I'm going to prioritize the relationships, clean it up, make this a separate point in itself coming off of here, because now I'm seeing different patterns, I'm seeing different ways to represent this. So let's go and rearrange that and what that looks like now is this. So look at how much cleaner that looks. The first one above versus this one. Straight away you can see that this is a topic with lots of organization. Lots of organization. And you can see I've used a technique here where I've represented hydrogen bonds as this dumbbell for the H to remind myself that it's strong. Remind myself that it's strong. And by doing that, I can not have to write down that it's strong because I've represented the idea that it's strong through the image. Okay. I've added a little ice drawing here to represent that water can be used as a coolant. And you can see I've rearranged the material here in terms of polar hydrogen bonds, solute solvent interactions. So this relationship between structure, solute, solvent interactions, which I had already planned out all the way here, right? Solvent, structure, solute, solvent interactions. That has maintained exactly. But the first way I did it, I realized I didn't really do it well. I didn't plan my use of space very well, which is why the second time When I fix it up, it retains that very clean image. And now the relationships are very, very clear to see. And it has exactly all the information that I need, minus maybe about 5%, 10% in terms of definitions, the specific equations and formulas and constants and things like that, which I can just go through and memorize very easily. So that's the skinned version and you can see how clean that is. So have a look at this one and compare that to the original one we had over here and just look at how I have changed it and how I have chunked it differently, how I have rearranged it in space, okay? So we're looking at changes in the way I've arranged it in space and the changes in the way I've done the chunking to really differentiate the information, organize it a lot more and just make the relationships much clearer.