Ok, so I want to take a moment to go into, we'll go into the skin step, but I want to take a moment first to outline another extremely important studying technique, and this is again one of those things that it's like, I cannot believe the brain can do this. It's so powerful at learning that it can do this, okay? So let's look at those techniques, the questions that we ask in the AIM step. Whys it important? We ask that question because it allows us to build logic and relationships. How does it relate to everything? We ask that question because it allows us to build relationships. But when we apply the same question of how does it relate during the skin step, what we are actually doing is that we can actually do something called chunking. Okay, chunking. It doesn't sound very glamorous, but it is a very cool psychological phenomenon of learning that your brain is able to undergo. Okay? So let's actually have a look at what chunking is. Chunking is this thing that happens in your brain when you literally put information in chunks, when you put information in chunks. Okay? So let's say that each of these dots represents a fact or a concept, a piece of information. Okay. Here, we haven't chunked it. We haven't chunked it and here we have chunked it. Okay. But here we haven't chunked it. So each information point exists in isolation. Right. Here, we don't have good relationships formed. We don't have any patterns formed. So this is what studying would normally look like if you had just memorized it or learn it through wrote thousands of flashcards. This is what the knowledge looks like inside your brain. It's not connected, it's not chunked. So your brain now needs to remember four by three, 12, let's just call it units of information. Okay? And it takes 12 times the amount of energy to maintain this. So because it's more energy consuming, your brain is more likely to forget it. And in this case, your brain is likely to just wipe out the entire set of knowledge 'cause none of it is connected to anything, okay? But let's just say, for example, that it is at least a little bit connected to something and so your brain doesn't forget all of it, but the retention on this is gonna be low, okay? We can expect that the retention is gonna be low. Now, what happens when we create these relationships is that by finding patterns, okay? By finding patterns, ways that the information is similar, common trends, ways that they are different to each other, what we can do is we can actually group different bits of information together. Okay? So, for example, we might say all the different catalysts that are used for a certain type of reaction all seem to be very similar in terms of the atoms or the elements that make it up. Or we might say that all the characters in the first half of this book seem to predominantly have a certain theme to them. Or all the types of character development tend to have a certain trend to it. Or all the different enzymes seem to activate molecules by the same mechanism. all questions that involve trigonometry with a person on a cliff at a certain distance of meters, they tend to be solved by using this particular equation followed by this particular equation, right? So what we're doing is we're looking at our knowledge, we're examining, we're taking our eye and we're saying okay we've got all these points of information, we're looking at it and we're trying to find patterns, ways that they're similar, friends or even differences between them so that we can actually group the information together. So let's say that this, this and this share some similarities. These things are all related to each other and these two are related to each other. So what our brain actually does when we do that, and this is super cool, is that it actually creates these things that are called chunks. So this is one chunk, this is one chunk, this is one chunk, okay? And I mean these aren't chunked, so these are kind their individual points. And so, what we actually find is that the brain now doesn't actually need to spend 12 units of energy to store it, because we've got one, two, three chunks, plus four, five, six, including the other unchunked pieces of information. There's only six things for our brain to hold onto. Now, it doesn't actually just use six units of energy. It's not quite like that. Realistically, it's more like seven or eight units of energy. Okay, so like one chunk here is, you know, represents a little bit more than just like one unit of energy, but the idea is that it's actually easier for your brain to remember chunks than it is to remember individual pieces of information. And actually, because there are more relationships between them as well, the retention goes up as well. Okay, and obviously the efficiency goes up with it. And okay, that's kind of okay, that's fine. But the cool thing about the brain is that, you know when you download something and you get it in like a.zip file, you know, and you have to like uncompress and like, you get, you know, multiple files that were inside it, but it's like compressed here. And then when you extract it, you get all the files. Well, that's actually how the brain kind of works when it comes to chunks. Each chunk is like a zip file. And when you access the chunk, your brain is able to actually extract all the points inside it much more easily. So what that means is that this chunk with four pieces of information connected inside of it, this is easier for your brain to remember than those four chunks by themselves. Your brain can still recall each individual point, but for some reason, because you've chunked it, it's just easier for your brain to hold onto that information, okay? And it's probably, and the science isn't extremely clear on this yet, but it's probably that there's a higher level of retention because of the fact that there's more relationships, more connections being formed, which goes back to the cave theory. So the relationship aspect is probably the reason why chunking works, but it could actually be a separate psychological phenomenon but probably it's because increasing relationships. And the way that I like to sort of think about it is like a zip file or like these Russian dolls. You know, these dolls where you get one and this one kind of goes inside the other one and then this one goes inside the other one and then you can have like 20 of these. It's kind of like that. You kind of, your brain sort of stores the big doll and then all the other ones sort of pop out from underneath it or another way of thinking about it is if you remember that analogy I made before with the room and how when you're trying to organize information in your brain, that's kind of what learning is. And so if you're not organizing the information, then you'll have a room with all the items just scattered on the floor and trying to find and retrieve anything takes forever. Whereas if you put them inside like the drawer and the wardrobe and the dressing side table and the laundry basket, you know where the information generally is. So when you're trying to recall and retrieve that information, it's much faster to do it, so it increases your ability to recall. Well, what chunking is, is it's saying, okay, this is basically chunking, okay? But we can chunk even more. We can take this drawer and we can say, okay, this drawer, instead of like opening up a drawer and then inside it just being this disorganized mess of just stuff inside it, what we can do is we can have that drawer, we can go to our nearest Japanese market and we can buy one of those stationary organizers, okay? And then like, we can put all of our pens here and we can put all of our knives here and our pencils here and our whatever erasers here. And so now it's even more organized. So it's like organization inside organization, okay? So it's a chunk inside a chunk, okay? And the more we chunk things, the better it is, the better the effect is, okay? Or it's like a zip file inside a zip file, inside a zip file. So we actually wanna create as many chunks as possible. So when we first do the aim step and the shoot step, we will end up forming some chunks, okay? So we're already doing this a little bit, but we do the skin step in order to create even more chunks. So we're looking for more opportunities to chunk it, okay? So we might've thought, okay, we've made these chunks, but then you look at it again and you think, Oh, hey, look, I can actually chunk this whole chunk here. Man, the word chunk is starting to lose meaning. I can actually take this chunk and I can take this here and I can actually create an even larger chunk of that. And oh, if I chunk that, I can actually chunk this together. So now we've actually got two massive chunks with different chunks inside them with individual points inside that. So it's like organization inside of organization, side of organization. And this is when knowledge starts becoming really simple because when you're trying to explain it to someone, you can just say, Oh, this topic is really just about this and this and then a side point here. And then when they say, Oh, explain this for me a little bit more, you can say, Oh yeah, that's really just talking about this versus this and then this point and inside this point, it's like about this, how that's related to this in order to achieve this. So you can see it's very simple to understand. So an expert is able to explain something to a five year old. Okay, an expert can explain saying a five year old, a beginner can't explain it. A beginner relies on this type of knowledge where they say, okay, well, this topic is about this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, and this, this means this, this means this, which comes down to forming relationships. So let's see this in practice a little bit. Here's one of the mind maps that we looked at before. This is what that mind map looks like when we're doing it information first. So let's look at this and evaluate it in terms of the relationships. And let's look at it in terms of the chunks that were formed, all right? So first of all, relationships. Look, we can see that there are some relationships that have been formed here. We've got cardiovascular system leading to blood pressure, leading to these different things here, leading to these different things here. So we can see there are relationships being formed. So are there relationships? Yes, there are relationships being formed. Are those relationships clear? Okay, are those relationships clear? They're not very clear. You can see that it's kind of hard to follow, But also, when we look at the chunks, do we see any opportunities for more chunking? Can you see any opportunities where you can create more chunks? Here's a tip. You don't need to know anything about the cardiovascular system to spot chunks, okay? I've taught people law, I've taught people economics. Trust me, I'm not an expert at any of those topics, but the studying technique is exactly the same. How do we know we have an opportunity for more chunks? We can usually create more chunks when there is more than roughly four, four or more, branches coming off from any individual point. So let's highlight those areas where there is opportunity for more chunking, okay? Here, you can see that we've got one, two, three, four, five branches coming off of blood pressure here, which means that we can probably chunk some of these together. We can find similarities and differences between this and this or this and this or this and this or this and this or this and this, and we can kind of bring it together, okay? So let's just do that for this point right now. So here we've got an idea about what's called exchange in periphery and net filtration pressure. So this is talking about the fact that blood, when it goes out into our peripheries, like our arms and our fingers and legs and stuff, that there is blood and blood gas exchange, okay? Allowing our organs and our limbs to get oxygen and, you know, exchange the waste products and all of that sort of stuff, okay? That's what this is talking about. This here, net filtration pressure, this is actually talking about the blood pressure that causes the exchange to occur. All right, so what happens is that this pressure forces fluid outside of our blood vessels and it kind of seeps into all of our tissues and it allows it to exchange properly, okay? So, what that actually means is that these two points are actually related to each other. So I could get rid of this and actually just have a single arrow coming out of this that goes to the idea of exchange, which is contributed towards by net filtration pressure. So do you see what I've done is I've created a chunk here. I've created these two and I've chunked them into one thing, which is the concept of just exchange. Right? So we can do that for any of these other points as well. So here, there's a lot of things around anatomy. There are a lot of different hormones here. There are a lot of things here on the S-A-A-V node. Okay, conduction system, action potential. So even if you don't know what these words are, it should stick out to you. And I'm not gonna go over and teach you all of these things, but purely by doing that, I can tell you for a fact, it is possible to chunk all of these things that we have circled. Okay, it is possible to chunk all of these things that we have circled. These can be divided into three different chunks. This could be divided into, again, two different chunks, actually. This one can actually be divided into three chunks. And then this one can be divided into two chunks. And this one can be divided into two chunks as well. So by doing that, we would have increased our chunking. So here, is the chunking done well? It's done okay, but it can definitely be done better. Okay, so let's have a look at what this looks like when it's been done better and when the relationships are more clear. Because more chunking means less crazy arrows going everywhere, which actually means it should be easier to follow because there's just less crazy arrows going everywhere. Okay? The information is still the same, it's just that it comes later on in the branching, okay? It's not like we're getting rid of a Russian doll. We're not getting rid of this. we're just putting it inside another one. We're putting it later, okay? It's not like we're getting rid of our stationary. We're just putting it inside another box that we need to unpack. So instead of the mind map looking like point going out to one, two, three, four, it would look like point going out to one point, then two points, and then these two points would have two each. So if this is point number one, two, three, and four, you still have point number one, two, three, and four. However, you can see even in this, this actually looks more chaotic than this. It looks like there's more organization here. And especially if you've got heaps of different connections going everywhere, this can get very confusing very fast. So you wanna make sure you've got as much chunking as possible. So I've gone ahead and done that already for this topic. This is exactly the same topic as this. But you can see how very different this mind map looks compared to this mind map. So here, it's a little bit easier to follow the arrows. We can see that there are three things coming off of here. We can see this kind of structure and it flows like this. You can see that I said you can split anatomy into two chunks. I've done that right here, two chunks in anatomy. And I've arranged it like this. You can see that all the stuff in green is stuff that wasn't in the original mind map. These are my new chunks. So I formed all these new chunks here, here, here, here, here, all of these things are new chunks that I formed. And that's allowed me to rearrange the information very differently so that it makes a lot more sense and the relationships are much more clear. And because I have actually looked at all of this information and I've thought, okay, what is the most important thing here? I've asked myself that question. I've really asked myself, what is it that is the most important? Now, what is the second most important? What's the third most important? And how do they all relate to each other? I've asked myself that question again. Okay, I've asked myself that question again. And that is this here, this is the skin step. Going from this mind map to this mind map, that is the skin step. So what am I doing? I'm asking myself these questions in order to make it more clear. And in asking myself what's most important, I'm able to categorize my relationships as some being more important than others. I'm weighing my ideas and I'm reaching that level six evaluation here, okay? So you can see there's an evaluation. I've evaluated that anatomy, physiology, and regulation are three important concepts. I've evaluated that this pathway is very important. You can see based on the thickness of the arrows, I've evaluated that this is important. I've evaluated that this is important, but this, this, this, this is less important than this. So now, instead of it being all, you know, potentially the same level of importance as you might see from this mind map, or you might be led to believe, actually, now our knowledge is at a higher level. So this person's knowledge is at a level, hopefully you can guess it, This person's level five, okay, or maybe between four and five. And then here, the knowledge is at a level six, okay? So it's a higher level of learning and this is much more efficient. So this is what the skin step allows you to do. And you get a massive, and let me say, a massive retention increase once you do this. And the thing is, you don't have to do the skin step straight away. You can do this, and you can actually do this maybe one week later. It can actually be a revision activity for you. You can try to do this from pure recall, right? We can add recall, active, full, pure recall into this, and that becomes a really great revision activity that even increases your level of mastery. This is way better than doing a practice question or just rereading your notes, but I mean, I'm almost offended to assume that someone would think that rereading and rewriting notes would be even close to as efficient as doing something like this. Okay, so you could do this a week later, or you can do it straight away. You can do this, look at this, and straight away, 10 minutes later, try to do something like this. So it's very flexible. As long as you're following the steps, you're gonna get that learning, no matter when you do it, okay? So this is how the skin step works in relation to this amazing phenomenon, which is called chunking. And chunking is something that, again, it's very easy to do as soon as you just see how to create these relationships. And once you start seeing that, you can't unsee it. You can't unsee it. And it becomes very, very easy to do. It's extremely achievable. But maybe most importantly, it's not risky at all. There's nothing to lose. There's only things to gain. So that's chunking, and that's your introduction to the skin step. So we'll go into more specifics around each individual step soon. (banging) 私はあなた [Birds chirping] [Birds chirping] [Bell tolls (distant chattering) [Birds chirping] [Birds chirping] 私は (knocking) 今度は 大阪 (Вид