(birds chirping) - So how do we skin this? How do we skin this? We have identified a list of techniques, but we did that after identifying a list of themes. And then we found the techniques and related it to the themes as we went. So everything we learned already from the get-go had a purpose, the technique had a purpose. and we already directly linked that through to the agenda. Look at that, look at that, we already built the map. So what are we doing with the skin step? In the skin step, we're gonna consolidate. We're gonna consolidate that knowledge to make it something that's easier for us to work with. If we're gonna pump out an essay, we want it to be easier to work with. So how do we make this easier to work with? Well, let's write out this list of themes that we had a little bit differently. Okay, so we've got the idea of better, okay, good. happy. We've got the idea of cooperation. We've got the idea of local and relatable. We have the idea of it just being a positive change. We have the idea of us being appreciated. We have the idea of them being unique, them being honest, and this change, this positive change being like obvious and that it's like common. So okay these are some of the things that we had and in fact actually I think the obvious was relating to the fact that it's obvious that they are local, that they are, that they're relatable and that they are cooperative and they appreciate you. I think that's what they were trying to be obvious but actually they also try to make it obvious in other periods of the text that it's obvious that this is a better thing. So now what we're gonna do is we're gonna find patterns between these words. So let's say better, good, happy, positive, change. So these things are all kind of like this sort of the same thing. So I'm gonna just talk about that as a single word positive change. Positive change. I'm gonna take let's look at at another one, I think the idea of them being honest and appreciating you and then being local and relatable and cooperative, I think that's all kind of also the same kind of general idea, which is the idea of, let's think of a word that we can use to kind of bring all of that together. Maybe we could describe all of those as being like customer first. Okay, customer first. or like customer valuing, maybe. It doesn't really matter, it's not super important. We're just trying to find something that we can pin it to. And then the idea of this being an obvious and a common change that's occurring, I think that's actually an important thing that they do mention a few times. So I'm gonna put that here as well, the idea that this is like, this is, this is like, in a way like normal. This is normal. Okay. So now we've taken all of these themes And we've distilled them into just three different things. So if the essay were to ask you to analyze their persuasive literary techniques that are used in this article, or and you know, why or justify that or what the purpose of it, whatever it is, then we would actually simply be able to say, based on this, we'd say, okay, well, the reason that they're doing this is because of their agenda, obviously. And the way that they're representing all of this is through the same, you know, list of techniques, techniques that we would have identified here, these sorts of things. So we've got all those same techniques. So our essay then is very simple. We simply start from here and we move to introduce these points and then we start at the first point and then we rationalize it using the techniques we have. So we would say this is an article that is actually a paid advertisement written by Hayley's local store, which is clearly trying to portray their recent cashless digital change as something that is positive and centered around their customer first, customer valuing business philosophy, which they have attempted to normalize to the Australian audience. The positive change can be seen through the usage of techniques such as the very positive photo with the handshake, as well as repetition in the title, as well as other areas of repetition and rhetorical questioning, reinforcing, for example, why did we do these things, followed by an emphasized statement that shows that they are customer serving. Meanwhile, we can see that there's credibility given to the statement of its normality and how positive this change is with the juxtaposition of statistics being used directly in contrast with value-driven words such as recent pickpocketing, and easier and safer in reference to ongoing cashless. Something like that. Like I'm literally just making this up on the spot, okay? But the idea is that it's very systematic. All we're doing is we're saying in the essay, this is their agenda, and this is how they have decided to, these are the things that they're trying to push across. And the ways that they are doing this first one is that they're using this technique, for example, here and then here and then here. And then we just have to link that. and that's a technical skill, okay? So doing this and making it sound good, that's a technical skill. You need to practice that. Linking this, that link, that's a technical skill. You need to practice that. But in terms of what you are linking, what you are saying, and your ability to really critically analyze, to figure out the techniques highly accurately and extremely systematically, that's the same, that's the same. So let's have a look at how we can actually do this, this entire (mimics air horn) process and I'm going to show you from including the aim, shoot and skin for a different type of question so that you can see how that this works for types of unfamiliar or like analysis that are considered curveballs. So this is a question that has come up recently at the time of recording this and it was even in the news because students were like bewildered that such a question could come up because it was considered too difficult. But let's see how easy it is when we apply a simple BHS system to this. So first of all we're asking what are the main themes on here and why is it important? So, first of all, what are the themes that we can see? So when we're looking at this, we're simply gonna draw out the themes. What do you notice here? I notice a smiling person, okay? I notice the pencil, okay? There's a pencil here. I notice there's a sun here. I notice the, okay, the birds here. Let's try to think about what sort of themes this are. Okay, this smiling person, that's like a very positive thing here. The pencil, I think that kind of references like studying or a student or something like that, maybe. You've got these birds here with the word flu on them and they look, maybe they look kind of free. Okay, they look like freedom. You've got clouds here. Okay, the clouds, which have the word softly on them. And then you've got the word, the sun here, with like honey, stay. So these are very safe kind of words. So not only, not only is there a sense of positivity, there is actually like a sense of, sense of calm, a sense of like comfort that's given there, right? And then we've got the waves. We've got the waves underneath the bottom. What does that look like? Well, I'm noticing that there are words down here that are both positive and negative. Like we've got words like tiptoe, which is like quite a careful sort of word. We've got words like plunge, which is, you know, can be seen as kind of like scary a little bit. Fathom, which is like almost like overwhelming kind of word. Echo, makes it feel like empty or like very, very large. Million, you know, that's just like a big word below, you know, something that's underneath. So there's a theme that I'm getting with all of these words underneath here. Okay, plummet, you know, that as well. Let's see if we can find any other words here. Even like, oh, oh, that's like an expression of like, it's like a expression of like almost surprise. So what we're getting here is that we're getting a bunch of words that indicate that there's like, that there's unknown, like more in the depth, an unknown depth. There's something there that's big, that's wide, that's unknown, that might be even potentially scary. That's the kind of feeling that we're getting from these words. So that's another theme, okay? That's another theme. And then in the top side of here, we've got things like once, we've got sigh, why, wake, Wander, meander. Okay, so there are these words that are like, why, wander, meander. So these are words of like almost uncertainty. Someone that's kind of like lost. So we have now actually a very interesting thing that we're seeing here, right? So we see that there's like all these positive things up here, and then we've got some slightly like almost ambiguous, weird, negative things over here. And then we've got like confused, lost stuff in the middle. Okay, we've got like positive going to kind of like, maybe sort of like negative, confusing. And then we've got like, just lost, like what's going on in the middle. Interesting, interesting, right? Now, why is, you know, why are these themes important? In this example, we don't have anything about the artist. We don't know anything about the artist. We don't know where they're coming from. There might've been more information in the actual original text, but from what we can see, we don't have enough information to know why these themes were important. But I'm willing to bet that this is a person who has something to do with education or maybe writing based on the fact that they've got a pencil here. And I'm willing to bet that there's someone who maybe has gone through some of these different emotions and that's something that's really personal to them. Okay? But we don't have enough information to answer this comprehensively. So we're gonna give that like a squiggly line to say that we can't really do that one. All right, now how do the techniques that are used relate to the themes? Well, we've already kind of done that, right? And trying to figure out what the themes are. We've seen certain techniques that are being used here. We saw that there was this sort of spectrum, okay, from top to bottom. I would say that's one technique. We've got the idea of like the waves being made up of like words, you know, the usage of actual words to represent emotions. I can also see that like the colors up here are a little bit brighter, so there's some colors being used. And I can see a smiley face, look a smiley face. And I'd say that that's probably enough techniques for me to write an essay about. So if our task is now to analyze this essay, we've kind of already consolidated this by saying, okay, we've got the idea of like a student or something, a sense of like calm, confident freedom, but also this sort of theme of kind of being lost. This in a way almost becomes like the summary. This is like our skin step that we've just done. Okay, I inadvertently skipped ahead and did it. I'm sorry for that. But this basically is what we would have done in the skin step is trying to find patterns and make it something that's a little bit easier to work with because this is not easy to work with. This is easy to think about. So when we're analyzing this, we would say something like, This is a very interesting image depicting what seems like not only a physical journey, but potentially an emotional journey as well. The themes that are clearly represented here are a juxtaposition of positivity and freedom, giving a sense of calm confidence compared to the unknown depths below, which are more confusing and chaotic, uncertain and potentially even scary. We see examples of the positive, calm, comfort being seen in not only the colors that are being used, but in the visual representation of a smiling student and the birds, which look very free and have the words flu on them. We also see the clouds with words soft, which give a feeling of comfort. However, underneath the surface of the water and making up the waves, we can also see the juxtaposition, the use of words like wake versus why, meander and wander, which give a sense of confusion, reinforced by words like sigh and the darker colors that are used there. We can see at the bottom, there are more dark colors that are being used, which is well supported by words like plunge and fathom and echo, which give a sense of depth and scale and uncertainty that may be scary. This is again reinforced by words such as plummet that is seen in the transition between confusion through to that unknown depth. Okay, something like that. So do you see when we apply the same thing, the skill is being able to make it kind of fluent and flow along, but the practice that we need to do is in being able to develop the eye. developing the eye to be able to critically dissect it by using these things and going from the themes and relating it to the techniques rather than doing it the other way around. 視頻をご覧いただきありがとうございます。