- Okay, well, how do we skin this 1984? My map, we've gone from themes to the reasons why and then we've connected that to the examples and the techniques. So in skinning, the idea obviously is to consolidate the information. We're looking for patterns, we're looking for types of examples or techniques that we can all relate back to a certain thing, a singular point, something that's easier for us to work with. Now, the thing here is that, now I've learned English in high school, obviously. I've also taken English at a university level, and I've also published papers as well. So I have a relatively decent exposure to English across all levels. The thing is that actually at a high school level, across all curriculums, you're never really needed to develop your ability to analyze English beyond what you'd actually get from a shoot stage. So it's not actually necessary to go beyond that in terms of knowing it deeper than what you'd get from this, but what is relevant instead is being able to put this information into an essay and use this information in different ways. So that's what I actually wanna focus on is in the skin step for English, And this is quite a subject specific thing in that the skin set for English, our goal here is to consolidate by hitting it from different angles. And we want to use the information, okay, in different ways. What we want is we wanna be comfortable with the themes. We wanna be comfortable with rationalizing why those themes are important, okay, the rationale. We wanna be comfortable with linking those themes to the techniques, and we wanna be comfortable with doing that for multiple different ways, okay? Different types of consolidation. And so here we come back to Kobe's experiential learning cycle, the experience, the reflection, the abstraction, and the experimentation of it. And this is really what the skin step is, is that we're gonna be doing lots of different essays, we're gonna be writing different types of questions, using the information in different ways, and really looking for ways that we can put these themes and techniques together in ways that we normally wouldn't have thought of. This is not something that is easy to save time. In fact, you can't really save time on this. It actually relies on you having done the shoot step properly in order for the skin step to go well. But what we're really doing here is we are legitimately at this point going to be doing practice essays with different practice questions. So this should be very familiar to you. The difference is that we did the shoot step a little bit differently, we did the aim step a little bit differently to how you're used to. But at this point, we are doing the good old fashioned what you're used to in terms of practice essays. But the reason that this is now more effective is because instead of doing practice essays alone and blindly trying to improve, what we're actually doing is we're doing a practice essay, we're reflecting on how well that was able to connect the techniques to the themes, or rather display the themes and connect the techniques to them. And then we're gonna extract on different types of approaches that we could take. So what I recommend here is not only to write your own practice essays, but also to analyze other exemplar practice essays that you might be able to find. And usually if you're studying a text at school, it's a famous text and there are literally like hundreds if not thousands of practice essays, sorry exemplar essays that you can read. And what you wanna do is look for how the other person, how other people have managed to communicate this. So you are basically revising this, but in essay form, and you're getting more used to just making these connections, making different types of connections, rearranging them in different orders, and just building that skill, and finding different ways that other people might've thought of, which can just overall consolidate your knowledge. So not a lot to explain here. This part you'll feel is much easier and more effective if you've done the shoot step well, even if it's technically very similar to the technique that you used before, because of the fact that we've changed the background, everything that we've done before that, by quite a lot, the benefit of doing practice essays at this stage changes by quite a lot as well. 😋