(birds chirping) - Well done for getting this far. It's amazing. You've probably able to look back and think about how you used to study and what you used to think about learning. And then compare that to what you know now and how you study now. I'm sure it's a huge transformative change and you're definitely, if you haven't felt the efficiency gains already, you certainly will once you actually start making this a habit and once it becomes automatic. And remember, students that are able to get this on autopilot, they often say it's harder to not do this than to do it. And that's when you know that you've really hit the efficiency jackpot. Now, I feel like you're ready by this stage, if you're comfortable with everything that we've gone through so far, and you're ready to learn how to really tweak it up, you're ready to learn about grind maps. Grind maps is, this is my own checklist for how to make sure that your mind map that you get at the end of the skin step is as good as it can be, okay? So we've already covered the principles of effective note taking, which remember is the VP Ref RE. That's true across all different types of notes. When we look at mind maps specifically, we know that there is a very specific and technical way to do mind maps to really bring about their true impact and effect. And so there's actually a more specific checklist that we can use to evaluate the mind maps themselves. Okay? So if it fulfills this checklist, we know that the mind map is of a high quality. Your mind map after your shoot stage probably is not going to be this good, but we wanna get it to this point after the skin step. Okay. So by the skin step, we want to make our mind map fulfill this and we want to turn it from a mind map into a grind map. So let's look at what grind maps are and what grind stands for. So the G stands for group. What does grouped mean? What we mean with grouped is that there is lots of chunking. Okay. Lots of chunking. Why didn't I call it chunking if it's already chunking? The reason actually is because I used to teach grind maps before I taught about chunking because I just thought that was a better way to teach it and calling it chunks is a bit like harder to understand whereas group is a word that people understand a little bit more easily. But now these days I teach chunking first but also it doesn't sound as good to call a grind map and so that's just that's purely the reason why it's a G instead of a C there. So G stands for grouped which is exactly the same thing as saying we've got lots and lots of chunking. The R, the R stands for reflective and what we're looking for here is really the same thing with our VP Ref Aria, it's the same R, reflective there. What we're talking about here is that you can see elements of order control, okay? You can see that the way that they've learned it, the relationships they've formed. Okay, so the relationships that have been formed, the logic that has been built, the concepts and how they've been arranged, the important details and how they have been added on to the concepts and how they lead on to the logic. It shows that this person has built something based on the layers of learning. It goes from the layers of learning up. Okay, in order to do that, obviously you need order control to be able to do that. Otherwise, you're normally given the details first, right? So in order to ignore the details first and focus on the logic, you obviously need to exercise order control. So that's what we're looking at in reflective. We're saying, is it reflective of a good learning process? Is it reflective of a good learning process? And a good learning process has relationships, layers of learning, and order control visible there. So if you see a mind map, which is just like, looks like this. Okay, if it looks like this, like a family tree almost, what does this mean? Okay, is there good chunking? Yeah, there is, it's grouped. However, does it show order control? Probably not, because probably in the textbook, this was heading number one, these were headings number two and number three, these were subheadings number four, and then five, and then six, and then seven. These were probably the terminology, and this is probably the definitions and the examples for them. So you can see in this way, it was actually still pretty linear, and it probably isn't in the way that makes the most sense for them in their mind. So this kind of shape of learning is what I call an information hierarchy. And it's very common when people start doing mind maps to create information hierarchies. And this is because they haven't done order control. They haven't focused on learning it in the layers of learning. Instead, what they've done is they've simply just taken headings and just grouped them under the headings without really thinking about it any further. And often with students that create information hierarchies, they are not asking the question of why is it important? Okay, this question is often very much so missing. But in some instances, this question is not missing. And I want to briefly touch on what that means. So there are two ways of saying that something is important. Okay, remember, why is it important? This creates logic and logic is cause and effect. There's actually two directions in which we can infer logic. And one of them is actually called reverse causality, which seems like it's logical, but it's actually a logical fallacy. It doesn't make sense. So this is what I mean. You can't say that something is important because it creates an effect. You can't say it's important because it creates an effect, because it doesn't explain why it exists in the first place. So here's an example. We're using just, you know, like common everyday sort of stuff, okay? If I drop my pen and it hits the floor to make a sound, I can't say that it was important for me to drop my pen because it will make a sound. I can't say that because a sound is made, the pen needs to be dropped. This is reverse causality. It's justifying the cause by the effect. So this arrow gets turned around and we can't do this. So let's take an example with something like biology. In biology, inside a cell, there is this thing called a nucleus. And inside the nucleus, we have our very well-known DNA. Now, in order for DNA to be replicated, or in order for DNA to turn into a protein, which could dictate our eye color, it might dictate our muscle development, that might allow us to respond to stress. You know, all of these things that the cell can do, you know, fight off infection, you know, develop immunity. It might tell us what color our hair is. All of these things, these are actually dictated by proteins. And so for the protein to be formed, it needs to be created based on what the DNA tells it to create. So this carries all the instructions for the protein to be created. It's like the assembly guide and the assembly guide is read by all the workers inside the cell in order to create this protein. But this DNA is extremely valuable. You've only got one of these in the cell. If this were to just go outside of this preciously well enclosed nucleus that protects it and and keeps it safe and it enters into the dangerous world of the rest of the cell, which is called the cytoplasm. If it were to enter the cytoplasm, there are enzymes and molecules floating around that could damage this DNA and do it harm. And then our only copy of our instruction manual has been destroyed or damaged, and that's not good. So actually, instead, what it does is that the DNA creates a copy of itself. creates a little copy and that copy is the thing that gets sent outside. So even if this copy gets damaged it's all good, it's all good, we just make another copy. Okay it's all good. It might make the protein here wrong the very first time that's fine you know it just means that we'll create a new one and so that copy gets sent outside and then our enzymes and other proteins will act on it and they'll you know produce this protein and good we've got the right eye color that we needed, we've got the right hair color that we needed, we responded to stress or immunity in the right way, all of that's all good, we're all good now. So this messenger, this copy here, this is actually called mRNA, okay, this is called mRNA and this is DNA. So if we have the question, why is it important to create mRNA? The reason mRNA is important is because it protects the DNA. It means DNA does not have to go outside of the nucleus. It stays safe and hidden because if the mRNA goes out and it gets destroyed, it doesn't matter. Right? That's why it's important. Reverse causality would say mRNA is important because it allows the protein to be formed. That's reverse causality. What happens is mRNA, yes, the instructions are read, and then the protein is formed. This is correct. This is a true sequence of events. This is what happens. mRNA comes out, it is read, the protein is created. So if we say, why is mRNA important? We cannot say mRNA is important because it is needed to create the protein. The protein is created because the mRNA instructed it to be created. That's the direction of logic. This is important because of this. This is important because of this. This is important because of protecting this, right? Not the other way around. We can't say this protein is important because it will go on to assign our eye color. Okay? So that's reverse causality and we don't want to do that. We don't want to justify something existing because of the fact that it creates something else. Why do we not want to do that? Because it doesn't become memorable. Because that means that in order for me to remember that mRNA is important, I need to remember that it forms a protein. So that relies on me having memorized this, memorized this, and I've memorized this, and therefore this actually ends up existing in isolation. Because it's just been memorized. It's no different from me just memorizing the process as it is. The point of asking the "why is it important" question is so that I can see it in terms of the bigger picture and relate it back to see what caused it in the first place. What gave rise to it? Okay? Where does it come from? That's the reason that this is important. So reverse causality is an extremely common mistake that I see, especially with people that do these information hierarchies because they think this is logical. They think they've asked themselves a why is it important question, but they've said this is important because it needs to give rise to this and this. No, these two exist because of this. This exists because of this, okay? And when you look at it that way, this type of structure often doesn't make sense because it's basically just requiring you to memorize all of these things down here and then memorize how it's branching memorize this. So even though the chunking is done well and will make it easier to memorize, okay, so chunking is good, therefore memorization is easier. It actually isn't as easy as it could be because the relationships are not logical. And so in this case, it didn't reflect the right layers of learning or the right order control. A little your head around this. And if I try to explain this to you, you know, when you first started this course, your brain will probably explode. But this is what the reflective means. The I stands for interconnected. Okay, the I stands for interconnected. And what that means is that if we have a mind map that looks like this, okay, my map that looks like this. Not like this, but also we can see relationships between some of these points as well. They're connected horizontally as well as vertically. They're connected horizontally as well as vertically. Okay, so things aren't just branching out. We're not just chunking and getting, you know, organization inside organization, we're also seeing how different ideas interact and influence each other. Okay, what does this do? This increases our ability to analyze and evaluate different ideas against each other and obviously it increases the number of connections. We don't want to just randomly interconnect everything, okay, we want to make sure that we're only interconnecting the stuff that's really important. We don't want to be like, "Oh, this word is here. Oh, this word is here as well. Boom, connected." We don't want to do that. We want to say that it actually is logical. There is an actual sort of cause and effect relationship here. Okay? So don't just chuck in random arrows everywhere just for the sake of it. Put in arrows that you think are actually meaningful and help you understand the topic a little bit better. Okay, so that's what interconnected means. The N stands for non-verbal, which means that we're doing more doodles, we're trying to make them abstract, okay, we're not just relying on words. And the reason that that's important is because, number one, words take up more space, okay, it's just harder to see what's going on because there's just more stuff on the page. And number two is because as we've already covered, doodles and abstract stuff uses a different part of your brain that normally isn't used and that actually directly increases our retention. The D stands for directional. Directional means that we have achieved level 5, the evaluate stage. Directional means there is a direction to the information. So instead of the mind map just being like this, it's more like this. Like that. So you can see there is a direction. There is a flow of ideas. A flow of ideas. Okay? So directionality really tests whether things are logical. Because logic is a, remember, cause and effect. So this arrow here, that's what gives directionality to the mind map. You can only get directionality when you think what is more important than others We can only get it when we start weighing and critiquing the ideas and seeing how it all contributes to a greater picture This is what gives your mind map more purpose So your original mind map before your skin step you might think you've got all the ideas then you need to ask yourself Right, we should know what we're asking ourselves. We're asking ourselves. Why is it important What is the purpose of it? Why did it need to be there? And that purpose gives you its causes and effects. And that allows you to create a mind map that just feels like it's just going somewhere. The information is more purposeful. Okay, and the E stands for emphasized. Emphasized is also sign of evaluation. What emphasize means is that the main connections? Okay main concepts main relationships Okay slash arrows Visually Clearer to see and this could just be bigger font bigger lines Lines that are stylized. So instead of just having something that looks like this we have something that looks like This and This so you can see straight away that the second one this Actually looks more memorable and the reason that we want to have this emphasize step in here is because it forces us to critique and evaluate and weigh up Which connections which relationships are the most important? Okay, and it forces us to be at that level 5. Alright, so this is the checklist for a good mind map at the skin step. This is a grind map. 視頻をご覧いただきありがとうございます。