(Video boyun this confidently across a range of different subjects at a range of different difficulties without finding that your results or the feeling that you're getting or the effect of the technique is inconsistent. And so what we're talking about today is the idea of intuitive chunking and intuitive chunking is a more advanced form of chunking because not only are we saying that we at this point have a very clear chain between inquiry, discovering relationships leading to chunk formation. Not only are we saying that we're able to use inquiry to create high quality chunks, not only are we saying those high quality chunks are importance-based, and not only are we then looking at other ways of chunking to decide which way is most effective, but we're also leveraging off of our prior knowledge as much as possible. So when we talk about the idea of intuitive chunking? What it means is that the chunk structure and a chunk and its sub chunks don't feel like they require a lot of memorization. So a chunk structure that requires lots of memorization would be if the chunks were simply terminology. You'd look at it and you think there's no possible way that I can remember that without purely just having memorized it. And I've talked about this previously as well and you may have heard me talk about it in live clinics and things as well. However now is a really a focus where we want to make sure that we're consistent with this as much as possible. So there are certain ways of chunking and chunk patterns that are just generally more logical because we already know how to think about this right. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna look at a key example of someone studying medicine but you could use this for for really anything. So even if you're not medically trained you will still be able to follow along and understand the pattern of thinking here and you'll see how you could apply this exact same thinking to really any subject and indeed whenever I study business or marketing or economics or accounting or even you know arts related things I mean education is technically arts so this method of intuitive chunking is actually relevant and applicable even then. So let's have a look at what we're talking about here. So one of the things that we can see that would point out the potential that we can maybe chunk this a little bit differently is if we evaluate the chunks that we are seeing here we can see that there is first of all a single node chain. We see a single node chain here. So it goes failure dialysis and this dialysis point is a node that only chains on to this next chunk. So whenever Whenever you see a single note chain, you always think, is there another way of chunking this that could make it better? And it's not always the case that you can, but often it's at least worth considering. If we look at the chunks in themselves, we will also see that there is a lot of terminology-based chunking here. So for example, if we go down to renal damage, and it's a little bit hard to see this too much in detail or read it, But this says UT, this is glomerulus, which you know this is a part of the kidney which is what renal stands for. So this is a topic talking about kidney damage. And so what we can see here is that it's divided kidney damage into the loss of function. So that's relatively intuitive. If we were to think okay kidney damage and kidney damage means that there's loss of function, that feels relatively intuitive as it is. However it's not as intuitive for us to then say okay we can divide kidney damage into loss of function followed by glomerulus. You know it's a very specific piece of terminology that we are using there and it doesn't feel natural to divide it that way. If we if one of the chunks is function loss which seems relatively intuitive, relatively logical we would maybe expect the other chunk to be maybe change in anatomy or characteristics or types of damage or something like that something that feels in the same level of intuitiveness whereas we're straight away going into terminology on the bottom half so that's an area where it seems a little bit off so that's another indication that we can do more intuitive chunking and we can see the same thing that's happening in the higher levels here as well So if we talk about function loss, it's divided into acute and chronic. Now, these are kind of specific terms, but in medicine, the words acute and chronic are used so commonly that it is essentially an intuitive way of thinking for most medical people to think about it in terms of acute and chronic. Acute means sort of faster onset, shorter time period. It's kind of happening here in the here and now. Chronic is sort of more longstanding, stuff that tends to last like months or years as a very simple explanation. So, you know, dividing it into something that's acute versus chronic, that seems relatively intuitive. And then we're saying both of these things can lead to failure, okay? And this person's done actually something that's good here, which is they've put ESRD underneath it, or ESRF, which is end-stage renal failure. And that's specific terminology. Now, an alternative way that this person could have maybe chunked this is to say, Okay, both of these things lead to failure, which is end-stage renal disease. But that would have created a single node chain because we would have ended up with this leading to failure and then failure simply just leading to end-stage renal disease. So by collapsing that into a single chunk with a main chunk heading and then a subtitle, we're able to reduce the amount of single node chaining. So this is correct technique here. If there was a single node chain, we can do this. And this is relatively a good structure here, going from function loss, going to acute and chronic, but then coming together into the fact that it creates failure. Another way that we could have represented this is to go straight from function loss, straight line to failure. And what that would be doing is that it would be actually representing different types of focuses on the information. So with this current formation, the chunk structure is emphasizing and therefore is making more memorable. This is the way we're organizing it in our heads. It's emphasizing the fact that function loss is split into two different types, but both of them come together to create failure. That's what's emphasized by this chunk structure and this shape. And me knowing about this topic, I feel that that is actually a pretty appropriate and important way of representing the information. Another way, like I mentioned, we could have done is just simply taken function loss and drawn an arrow directly through to failure, and then we could have had acute and chronic coming off the sides of function loss, okay? Coming off the sides of function loss. So what that would have shown is more just the process of going from function loss to failure, and that there are two different types of function loss. It's almost showing the same thing, but it's not putting the emphasis on the idea that both types of function loss still lead to failure. And I think in the context of the topic, That is an important point. So I would agree with presenting it this way more, in this case, rather than having just this, an arrow going to failure, and then splitting off function loss into two different types. But it's not to say that that's always the right way. Sometimes, depending on the topic, depending on the type of information, it makes more sense to branch it off and have a clearer backbone of just exactly how the process flows rather than doing it this way. And that's gonna be about you making a decision about which chunking structure you feel is most appropriate for this particular topic. And that's a decision that you need to make, and there's not always a right or a wrong answer, but it's the active process of deciding which one you think makes the most sense. And again, this is that higher order learning, that real evaluative level where you are not just creating chunks, but you're evaluating which chunk structure makes the most sense. So this is good. But when we go from failure, we are seeing dialysis versus transplant. Again, these are fairly specific ways of going and branching off of it. If we say we've got end-stage renal disease, and we say, okay, well, what are the two main chunks of kidney failure, dialysis versus transplant, both of which are treatment options, it doesn't feel intuitive. I don't feel like I would be able to hold onto that without having just memorized it, especially if it's new information. It's a different thing if we've been dealing with kidney disease for weeks or months, and we just intuitively know that obviously there's only two things from failure dialysis or transplant. That will be different because that's leveraging off our prior knowledge. But if we're learning this for the first time, then that's not intuitive already. It's not intuitive. We're not leveraging off of prior knowledge. So really here, we should have done a bit more importance-based chunking to say, well, why is dialysis important? Well, dialysis in the context of this kidney disease is important because it allows the human body to still perform the functions of the kidney even though the kidney is failing. And dialysis is something that you put someone on with the hopes that eventually they will get a transplant and get a new kidney so that they don't need this treatment to allow the body to continue to filter out and excrete all the bad stuff. So that's why dialysis is important. Why is transplant important? Well, transplant is the thing that is hopefully gonna fix the issue 'cause you're actually giving them a new kidney. So you can see that here, we can say that, Well, importance-based chunking would say that they are both things that happen in kidney failure, but they're both treatment options, and they're both treatment options for end-stage kidney failure. So we're seeing that there's ways that we can chunk this together. And so we wanna think now, what's an intuitive way that we could divide this? So one thing that we could have done is we could have simply added an additional chunk here. So instead of going from failure directly to dialysis and transplant, we could have gone from failure and just added treatment options. Okay, 'cause that seems relatively intuitive to say, okay, we've got failure and then how we're gonna treat it. And then we could have divided that up into dialysis or transplant. So that would have added an additional chunk to our logic layer that allows us to anchor in that after failure, we're gonna now look at treatment types. What they look like they've tried to do is actually use this medication box here to represent the idea that we are treating the failure. So again, that could possibly be an acceptable alternative, depending on how intuitive you feel it is that failure goes into these two options. So again, this is a medical example. However, it's not, you can apply this for your own subject. You're just thinking, does the way that I've structured these chunks seem to make sense? Does it seem intuitive? Okay, but there's more that we can do here, right? Because if we're looking at dialysis, We are now seeing that the single node chain leads directly to indications. Now, in medical speak, indications is basically why do you do this? Like in what situations would this treatment option be appropriate? So for example, antibiotics, the indication for antibiotics is a bacterial infection, in which case you'd say that antibiotics are indicated when there is a bacterial infection. It means it's the appropriate treatment for this thing. So in this case, dialysis leads to its indications. Now this is forming a single node chain because there's nothing else on top of this. However, if we go into the indications, we can actually see that it's divided into peritoneal and then hemo. Now these are actually two different types of dialysis. So we are actually going from dialysis through to when you should use it, through to the different types, right? So actually, we could have chunked this differently. We could have removed the single node chain by going indications versus types, right? So that would be something that's a little bit more intuitive. Alternatively, we could have actually gone and restructured the entire top half here by saying, well, when is dialysis indicated? And when is transplant indicated? And we could have separated it based on that. So level of severity or the stage that they're currently at or the timeline or progression of events. And that would have actually indicated more sort of when and why these different treatment options are available. And instead of putting these different indications and all this information out here in the leaves of the map, what we could have done is we could have maybe represented that straight away coming from failure saying, in these situations, we are thinking of these types of treatment options, whereas in these situations, we're thinking of these types of treatment options. And I personally believe that for this mind map, that would have been a simpler and easier way of representing the information because it's more important space. Dialysis is important because, not that because it's a treatment option of failure, dialysis is important in the context of here as a treatment option of failure when there is a relatively earlier stage and we are awaiting a transplant Or if there is a sudden injury that maybe we can potentially recover from where we don't need to replace the kidney entirely. These are the situations where it seems more appropriate to have dialysis. So in that case, we would be using our reverse chunking to have dialysis as the end point and the reasons for using it combined with the reasons for when transplant is more appropriate. And again, transplant would have been the end point. It would have been the detail that's at the leaves. So we would have been able to do some reverse chunking there. So again, these are more advanced nuances of chunking. However, always thinking, how can I make my chunks more intuitive? How can I represent this information so that I don't need to memorize too much? That's always gonna be a way that allows you to iron in your importance-based chunking and really focus on, is the way that I've chunked it relying on memorization or relying on prior knowledge, things that already seem logical? And actually, if you go through the bottom half of the mind map, this is not a skin diversion. This is purely straight away gone from shoot. So there's crossing arrows and lots of things that we can actually fix here. But again, here, there are ways that it's being chunked where it is simply just a division of the information without really reflecting its importance. And so thinking, how can we make it more importance-based would be appropriate. So for example, here they have said kidney damage. they've divided that into glomerulus, again, this is an area of the kidney that is involved in doing lots of the filtering of your, essentially what is going to become urine. And then they've divided it into nephrotic versus nephritic, but actually, maybe a better way of chunking that would have been to say, instead of dividing into these two pieces of terminology that you then need to memorize characteristics of, we could have maybe done that in reverse, where we've said, okay, well, you can either have poor filtration, that means that there's protein versus blood, because that would potentially reflect the differences between these two more appropriately. And there's maybe a couple of other ways that we could have split this up, where instead of having all the information to be memorized as the leaves of this chunk, that is actually fundamentally the way we chunk it in the first place. And what we memorize instead is that that whole concept was called nephritic or nephrotic. Right? So we're memorizing the terminology, not relying on the terminology to be the chunks themselves, because that creates more reliance on memorization. It relies less on our fundamental process of logic and the prior knowledge that we have that we can leverage off of, and it's gonna increase the failure points for retrieval. and it can in some cases also be less time efficient as well. And even if you don't decide to actually change the way that you've chunked it, the thought that's gone into trying to figure out the best way to chunk it, the thought of trying to connect it with your prior knowledge to make it more intuitive, because remember, that's what intuitive means. It means there is prior knowledge that you're leveraging off of. That process in itself inherently is going to drive up your encoding and create higher order learning really at that top of the pyramid, the evaluation level. So these are all really important additional tips. If you're that semi around base camp level, we wanna make sure that we're able to do this consistently. And again, let me reiterate that I've used a medical example here because it was just a handy one that I could use, but I can promise you, I have both done myself, had students that have done and have given feedback for reviewed countless examples from almost every possible other domain of study there is. I've seen examples where people have been able to do this level of intuitive chunking very consistently to get good results. It does increase the cognitive load, however remember by now hopefully you realize that is a good thing so we're gonna be trying to aim for that. But regardless as you practice these techniques and you modify your chunking and try to reach those higher quality, especially by this stage of the course, you're going to need very high quality and and very tuned in cobes that meets all of the criteria of high quality cobes, not just cobes like that, you know, very specific method of cobes that we do teach. You're gonna need that because trying to figure out exactly how to do this correctly can sometimes be a subtle process. You may need to get feedback from people with more expertise but it's a well worthwhile investment of your effort and time to try to reach this level.