So we've covered how we can do the aim and shoot for a new language based on the comprehensible input hypothesis and we're now going to look at how we can take that all the way through to the skin step after having done this aim shoot cycle. Now to be totally honest the skin step is not really necessary for languages unless you're really aiming to be very very fluent at it but there are some things that you can do that could speed things up and this is especially the case when it comes to reading especially if it's non-alphabetical. Like Mandarin is the best example here. Simplify Chinese or traditional Chinese. The way that the words and the characters are written, it's not alphabetical. So you have to memorize every single one, which is an extreme ordeal. So what we do with the skin step is, remember that the point of the skin step is to find connections and patterns, right? We're trying to create chunks and organization with it. Now you could do this in a mind map, And I have done this with the mind map before in the past and it sort of works and it sort of doesn't work. I would suggest that you just experiment with using it and see if it works for you or not. The issue that I found was that it became pretty overwhelming very quickly because there's so many different connections. But having sort of little trees of characters and trees of words can help. So what does all of that mean? Let me explain a little bit more in detail. When we're skinning something, we're trying to look for connections and patterns. Well, the thing is, we need to think a little bit about the origin of languages. So, have you ever realized that there are some words that sound very similar in lots of different languages? So, for example, the word "mum" is very similar in sound across basically every single language. And then we've got words, obviously, in English that are derived from Latin and Greek. We've got words that derive from French. But then we've got French words that have derived from other things as well, like more Eurasian or Proto-Eurasian languages. So this study of where languages and where words have come from and how it's developed over the years of human civilization, that is something which is called etymology. And when you look at the etymology of a word, then you can see where its root comes from, where it originates from. So when we think about the origin of a language, there are certain things that are the root, this is where the language comes from, and then as it grows, it starts varying. There are new branches that come out from the same root. So you can have a word, for example, the Greek word for light, which is photos. Now, photos, that Greek word, is used as part of words like photo, photography, photometry, and actually there's a bunch of other words as well that use the word photo, which is indicative of the word light. And we can see this with actually lots of other words is that we have elements of these words that have actually come from the same root. For something like English this is relatively straightforward. For other languages that we're not familiar with it can be more subtle. We may not realize that it's actually the same word that's being used again and again. In fact even in English there are certain words that we might not realize are first way. For example, the word commonly that we call soccer actually originates from association, which I've spelled wrong, association of football or something. And then there was an English schoolboy slang sort of thing where someone that did that would have like an 'er' added on it. So playing this football thing as part of the association was called a soccer and then the a was eventually dropped and then we were left with the word soccer. So there are words like soccer where we wouldn't even know that it originated from any other word previously but actually that is the case. So let alone in English in a foreign language where we don't even know the words to begin with it's very confusing where those words might come from. So we actually wanna be cognizant. We wanna pay attention to where those common word roots may have been, and find patterns between them so that we're memorizing a little bit less. So instead of memorizing 100 different words, maybe actually what we're memorizing is like 42 different words, and then there is like a combination of those 42 different words in certain ways that make up the remaining words so that we're not just memorizing new ones, it's just a little bit easier to understand. And actually the same can be done with the writing as well. So even something that's not alphabetical, like Chinese, there's actually a reason why the characters look the way that they do. So best example for this I think is the Chinese character for center, which looks like this, which is basically a line going through the center or middle. However, that word put together with the word for country means the center country and it's pronounced exactly the same way. This word plus this word to mean China and it's spelt this character plus this character. So that's a very simple and basic example but you'd actually find that with a lot of words that are compound in nature or not necessarily compound but maybe the characters share some certain elements between them, maybe they remind you of something. So for example, maybe this word is related to this word, but maybe this character reminds you of something. So for example, maybe the box looking thing on the outside, maybe that reminds you of like a boundary, which will remind you that this is the letter for country and actually the character inside here, I'm pretty sure is actually the character for king. So it's like the king inside his country, inside his boundary, that's the country. And now we've actually remembered that. And obviously something like this is memorable enough in itself, but there might be another character that looks like a bird, and that helps you remember what it is. So what we're doing here is we're trying to find connections and patterns and ways of remembering it that can be relatively arbitrary sometimes, or can be meaningful if they legitimately do relate here. So we're trying to think from the origin of the languages, where are the single branching points? What are the words that if I were to learn that, I would actually learn a bunch of other words as well, and it becomes a lot easier. And so what you do with this is that you simply can just go through your flashcards list, and you can do this like once a month or once every few weeks or something. Just get a list of all of your flashcards and just go through and see, are there any actually similarities that you haven't noticed between any of the words before. And you can spend half an hour to an hour doing this, and you'll generally be able to pick up a few things, or at least make certain words much more easily memorable. This combined with active flashcard management should allow you to remember lots of characters and lots of words a little bit more easily. But again, it is pretty situational. You're not always gonna be able to find these patterns. You're not always gonna be able to find this level of organization, especially in a new language, and you may simply just not have time. So at the very, very least, if you're not able to do the skin step, you should at least be doing the aim shoot cycle very vigorously. And if you get some time and a moment, especially for languages like Chinese, I would actually say it's extremely valuable for try to find these connections and patterns, ways that the character looks, shapes that it makes, words that are overlapping or characters inside, other characters or radicals that seem very similar and try to create those patterns. And this network, this connection that you draw ends up being what your mind map is. But as I said, it can be overwhelming. Give it a go. And if you find it's manageable, good for you. If you find that it's hard to manage that, then you just try to hold onto that information by making note of it some other way.