So we've looked at now the fact that we can flip that ratio from a 1 to 1 ratio of just doing questions again and again, and how we can flip that to a 10 to 1 ratio where every question we're doing is actually allowing us to learn much more about that topic. And it's going to make sure that we're able to tackle every single type of question they can throw at us because we've already thought about every type of question they can throw at us before we even learned about the equations we know exactly why we're learning it so all the learning is purposeful behind maths which is probably very new for most people so what can we do in the skin step well the skin step much like in English with maths the way that you are assessed for math curriculum is relatively limited which is a good thing because maths can be extremely theoretically heavy. So the purpose of the skin step, remember, is to find patterns and consolidate relationships. What we saw when it comes to a subject like English was that what that means is we wanna hit that from multiple different angles. We wanna test our relationship and our understanding from as many angles as possible so that no matter what they ask us, we're always gonna be confident because we've spent our entire revision process purely looking at that, and we haven't been locked into that one-to-one ratio of doing more questions in order to get good at that type of question. We are relatively comfortable with doing questions, we're relatively comfortable with calculations, and now it's more so a matter of just developing our ability a little bit more. So how do we do that? Well, the first way that we do it is very simple. It's what you're exactly used to. It's simply by practicing more questions. So here, there's no change. But the reason why it's important now, and we do it in this order, is because we have already set up our brain to learn it differently. Because it's now ready to learn differently, when we go through a lot of different types of questions and practice questions, we're able to get a lot more learning out of it. It makes a lot more sense for us. And it's more like saying, oh, this is how I think it's meant to be. So it must actually be like this, and you do another question and you're like, oh yes, it is like that. So unlike normally when you do a practise question, and you think, okay, this is what I think the answer is, oh, I'm wrong. Why is that? Oh, it's because I have to do it this way instead. You do another question, oh, I got it wrong. Why is that? I have to do it this way. This requires you to be able to say, you to just like memorize a different step-by-step process for pretty much every different type of question. It's not going back to a fundamental theory, there's no hypothesis that you're testing, there's no general approach to it, it's all very almost random. Whereas when you have a really strong understanding of why you learn all of those equations, you naturally know when to apply them. So you think, "Oh, this type of question I should be able to apply a combination of this equation and then this equation and that should allow me this type of problem. Does that work? Oh, it didn't work. Oh, it's because for these types of questions, I actually need to have a third element in there as well, or this element doesn't actually work. And therefore, any type of question that involves this combination, we will be able to solve, because we've deepened our understanding, we've consolidated those relationships, we've found patterns between different types of questions, and we've found that certain questions are all the same in some ways. And so what that's doing is that because we know that at a high school level, we are almost never tested at this top level to create new mathematical knowledge, which is extreme. We're only ever really tested in the levels where we're trying to evaluate, analyze, and apply it, or the lower levels, understand and memorize, but mostly in the analyze, evaluate, and apply levels. We don't have to worry about getting to an extremely high level of mastery. we can simply now worry about refining our skill, practicing questions, and because we're locked in now to a COBE's experiential learning cycle, where every question that we get wrong, we're actually learning more than just that question's worth, we should over time actually improve. Now, there's another aspect to this as well, actually, which is that by this point, there's a really easy way to tell if your maths knowledge and application, so the balance of your theoretical understanding versus your ability to apply that, your procedural skill, whether that's in good balance with each other. So whether this is too weak or whether this is too weak. It's easy to know if your procedural aspect is too weak because it simply means that when you try to do questions, you're not able to do it. That means that your procedural aspect is weak and doing practice will help with that. And as I've mentioned time and time again, by now when you do practice, you will improve much faster because it's actually developing and consolidating your knowledge. Whereas normally when we do it, these two are completely separated. But there's actually another way that we can test whether our conceptual understanding of maths is right or not. And that is to not just do practice questions that you find, but that is actually to make your own. Make your own questions. So you want to make your questions as challenging as possible. And you always want it to be, okay, always, you want it to be applied. You want to always have it applied in some kind of scenario, or some kind of realistic situation. So if you're learning about, let's say, you know, trigonometry, you don't want to create questions for yourself where simply you have a triangle and then the number is like five versus four versus like, you know, the angle here is like 88.7 degrees, versus you do it again and you're like, okay, well this time I'm gonna make the number here like 71, and then this number is gonna be like 63, and then this is now like 74 degrees. That's really no different, okay, 'cause you know that the process is going to be the same. You wanna make questions that are always applying it differently. You wanna say, okay, so we've got a cliff here, and there's a person at the top of the cliff, and they're gonna throw something down, and then they know that it lands a certain distance away from them. If there was a person standing directly at the bottom of this cliff face, what would the angle of this sort of be, if this is X and then this is Y or something like that? You wanna make questions that are applying the information just lots of different ways. You wanna think of like the hardest possible question you would get in an exam. and you want to try to make it yourself. So students that know how to use their knowledge will be able to create those questions. Because when you look at this, if there's an equation here, let's just call that equation number one. And then there's another equation over here. Let's just call this equation number two over here. Then because they understand why this equation exists here, and how it allows them to achieve all this other function here, It means that they can actually say, okay, so the relationship between equation number one and equation number two is through this pathway. It's through this pathway. So they're able to actually create questions that use these different types of pathways. They can say, okay, so there is a function that's looking at the acceleration of an airplane as it's traveling from one city to another city, and that function can be represented by the graph of whatever. The derivative of this rate is found to be this and then the equation that we apply gives us the result of this. What would be the anti-derivative of this using the anti-derivative method which is over here? So we can do that very easily because we know, okay so all we need to do is reverse this back to here, find the derivative and then take that and then use that known derivative use the anti-derivative method or this particular equation. So because there is a web of understanding of how everything fits together, it should be straightforward to be able to create those really challenging questions where your friends will look at it and think, man, this is like a scholarship level, very difficult kind of question. It's that type of question that if it comes out in the news, comes out in an exam, it will end up on the news because students struggle with it. You wanna challenge yourself to make those types of questions. And if you struggle to make those types of questions, there is a chance, a relatively high chance, that your conceptual understanding of why the equations exist and how to use them is flawed, and it will actually be more time efficient for you to go back to that level and try to understand that rather than trying to just keep doing more practice questions. Because the inability to make these types of questions shows that you're not able to operate at these higher levels where you can evaluate and then analyze different equations and different types of problems against each other, you're not able to make that comparison. It means that you're stuck down here at the apply, memorize, or understand level where you understand a single equation and you can apply it, but you're not able to use them in conjunction. So your goal is to get up here as quickly as possible. So if you're struggling to make your own questions, but you can still answer questions, then that means that you need to go back to your mind map, you need to look at those key words and concepts again, and really make sure that you've got a very clean understanding of how everything fits together and the general purpose behind everything. And then you can go back to the questions and you can try to make your questions again. So the combination of this and this is very protective for any type of question that you're gonna get in a maths exam. And I have, trust me, looked at a lot of maths exams and exams in preparation to make this video. And I can definitively say, across three year levels and six, seven, actually different curriculums, including IB, I didn't find a single question that I thought should not be relatively easily answerable by someone who practices in this way. But I saw plenty of questions that I thought lots of students would struggle with if they simply try to repeat again and again and just do millions of different practice questions without actually understanding why or how the equation works and how it fits into the grand scheme of that topic or why even that topic is relevant and important. So the skin step here is consolidating relationships and finding patterns through the act of practicing questions as well as making your own questions. Maybe you even wanna pair up with a friend and you can make questions to each other and share them with each other. And that would be a great thing for you to find a buddy with in your ICANN study group and do something like that. And make each other challenge questions and really test your ability to do that. 시청해주셔서 감사합니다.