[SİLAH SESLERİ] [İTİŞKEN SESLERİ] prioritizing. So what prioritizing really means is that we are trying to get as much value for the amount of time that we're actually spending. So time is passing no matter what. Even if you decide not to do anything, time is going to be passing. So we want to make sure that the time is being spent in the best way possible because you could be spending the same six hours and in those six hours, you may end up achieving absolutely nothing towards where you wanted to go compared to if you knew exactly how to spend that time and each hour is being spent to get you ultimately to your goal. And this goal could be whatever you want and that's the beauty about prioritization is that the goal for your first week might be to do really well in an English essay. In week two, it might be to spend time with your family, it might be to take care of because you're about to burn out, it might be to catch up on your maths. It doesn't really matter. Whatever is the most important to you that week or that day. And that's going to dictate the way that you spend your time and the way that you schedule your week and the actual activities and the tasks that you put into your calendar. So when you are scheduling, you want to make sure that the tasks that you assign yourself are the ones that you believe get you the closest to whatever your main priority is at that time for the amount of time that it takes. So there's no point in doing really well in your maths in week three if you're actually imminently about to burn out and then spend the rest of the year extremely unproductive because you're borderline depressed. Likewise, there's no point doing really well in your English essay in week number two if your family is about to disown you. So it's important to realize that life is varied. There are lots of things that we need to try to balance on our plates at any given time. And prioritizing well means that you give each task the amount of focus and attention that it deserves so that you're able to accurately balance everything. If you don't prioritize, then the prioritization actually ends up getting done for you based on what's just the most urgent. So if you don't prioritise, for example, taking care of yourself, then you will continue to neglect yourself until such a point where you can't afford to neglect it anymore and then you have to drop out of school because you're having a mental health crisis. If you neglect your maths for too long, you're going to get to the point where you're way too stressed because you realise there's no possible way that you can achieve the grade that you wanted because you're trying to cram it in too much. So prioritizing means that we are spending the time on what we need to so that we can achieve balance. And because it's not possible to balance literally everything all the time, we choose the thing that we're going to focus on so that when we look at it across weeks and months, we're giving everything the amount of time that we wanted to give it. So we're balancing it in the way that it needs to when we're looking at it across weeks and months, but on a single day or a single particular week, you might have a heavy focus for any individual single aspect. So prioritizing and getting into the habit of prioritization is actually more important than the scheduling because it's really easy to schedule wrong, but even if you were to schedule right, so good scheduling does not mean good prioritization. So you could have really time management and really good scheduling in terms of your specific way that you lay out your calendar and you organize your tasks per day. But if they're not the tasks that actually get you the closest to your goal, then it's actually time that's wasted, or at least wasted relative to what you could be doing in that time instead. So before you even look at what to schedule in, we want to make sure that it is the thing that is the most important to us. With an active process of prioritization. Now, this is something that I actually really underestimated when I was younger, and I used to only focus on this until I realized that I was doing a lot every single day, and my time was getting filled up. So I was feeling very busy. But at the end of the day, I still felt like I was not getting anything actually meaningful done, which doesn't seem like it made sense. How am I able to be both busy and yet not being really productive in any way, but not getting anything meaningful done? And that's because I realized I was busy with stuff that was not meaningful. So prioritization again means that we're filling the time with whatever gives us the most meaning. And we'll go into different ways of prioritization later, but for now, what you could use is a very simple system, very simple sort of checklist, which is if I could only get two things done the next day or this next week and satisfied. What would those two things be? And then you build your entire schedule around that. So we think, I would recommend that you actually think about this at the end of every day. So you think, tomorrow, if I could only get two things done, what would that be? And that might be, okay, I honestly, I need to exercise and I need to study my biology. Those could be the two main things that you need to get done. Or on another day, it could be I need to get good sleep tonight and I need to study my maths. Or it could be English and physics. Okay, it doesn't matter. The idea is that you're making an active decision about what it is that you're going to prioritize for the next day and you're building your schedule around that which is a fundamental first step good habit that we need to build.