Now the good news is that you're not just a completely lost soul. In fact, that cave theory, that way of learning that our brain has learnt to learn in for so many years is still there. It's the way that your brain is just structured. So you haven't actually lost the ability and we can demonstrate that very easily. From now on, this is actually how I want you to think about learning. This is the comparison I want you to make in terms of how your brain is capable of learning. I want you to think of a hobby or a book series or a movie series or some kind of, you know, whatever it is, a sport or an instrument, something that you think you know quite a bit about, that you've done for a long time. I don't want you to think about a subject that you've studied in school, just something that you have done out of your own interest because it was relevant to you, that you've You've spent time investing and immersing yourself in, and now you feel like, you know what? I know a pretty decent amount about this. If you were to imagine teaching that to a complete beginner, and you've only got, let's say, a few hours to teach it to them, how would you teach it to them in order for them to learn it in the fastest possible way? Think about what you're doing that first couple hours, what you do in the next couple of hours, how would you allow this new, enthusiastic, blank slate of a learner to learn as much about your hobby or instrument or sport or whatever it is, and as much as possible in a short period of time? You probably have a certain idea about what you might do, and it probably does not involve you going to write and type out an enormous manual of everything that you know, giving it to them, getting them to read it, and then writing it out again, and then doing like flashcards and quizzes on it until they figured it out. It's probably not an efficient way. So the thing is, even intuitively, you already know that the way of studying that you might be using is not something that works sustainably and is not even efficient. You would not choose to teach it in that way to someone that wanted to learn about it. But what's the difference between that hobby or the book series or whatever you're thinking about, and the stuff that you learn in academic curriculum. If you were to write it all down, you'll probably have to go on for pages and pages and pages. You might know more about this than you know about your entire biology or physics or maths or English curriculum. So if you were to learn it in school, you might have ended up learning it exactly the same way that you learn all your normal subjects. But because you didn't have it in the framework and the box of school, we end up using much more organic, well-developed learning pathways. And this is why when you think about that hobby or sport or skill or book series or whatever, you can think about it a lot more organically and the information is probably more omnidirectional. You can start from anywhere and go anywhere else. If you think about your favorite character and I say, "Hey, how would that character react in this scenario?" You can probably piece that together synthesize for me the idea about how you think your character that's entirely fictional would react in an entirely hypothetical situation. How many of you could take a concept in biology or physics or maths and then apply it to a completely new and complex different type of problem that you've never encountered before? How many of you could say I can take this concept and this concept and apply it in a completely new way? It takes a certain level of mastery of knowledge to be able to do that. And when we use organic learning pathways that are already built into our brain, it's a lot easier and actually is enjoyable. So in learning your hobby or your instrument, you probably never had to actually sit down and write a bunch of notes like you would for your subjects. You probably never had to do past paper questions or quizzes or flashcards or use whatever Pomodoro technique that you might use in order to do that. So our brains natural ability to learn is quite high, but we keep holding it back. And when we think about learning a hobby and how easy and enjoyable it is, and how long we're able to retain that for. You know, if you learn a new skill, you don't forget that the next week. You tend to retain that for a very long time. And so when we calibrate our sense of learning to how our brain works outside of the box of school, we get a really clean comparison between how learning could feel and should feel versus how we're forced it to feel, which could be this very dry and tedious process, which no one really enjoys. And you could get kind of good at it, but at the end of the day, you're getting good at doing something that you're caging. It's like having chains shackled on every single limb with heavy weights weighing it down. can potentially train so hard that you're still able to run at a decent pace. But compared to someone who actually took the shackles off and is just running freely, there's no comparison. The thing is that if you really think about the knowledge that you have, that you know the deepest and the greatest level of retention and the most comfortable type of knowledge that you have, it's probably the thing that you didn't actually spend dozens or hundreds of hours studying at the library and writing notes about, which is a little bit sad. The knowledge that you know the best is the stuff that you learn almost without even having to try. Actually, this is how studying should feel, and you can make it feel that way, at least to a pretty significant degree when you use the right technique. So the techniques that I share with you are going to slowly allow you to start taking those shackles off, uncaging and unrestricting your brain, and getting back to those really well-defined organic learning pathways that you've trained yourself out of throughout high school and all your academic experience. But we're then going to reconnect with that and rediscover, and then we'll see how easy and efficient learning can really be. 10 cm