(Durum But what I'm about to teach you about memory is something that completely flipped my perspective about studying and increasing retention completely on its head. So when we normally think about recalling something from memory, we often think of it as if it's sort of stored inside this box of memory inside our mind that we are drawing on and we call that memory out and that memory is like, "Ah-ha, look, here I am. I've been here all along inside the memory box in your mind." So we think about something, maybe a memory of our childhood or something that we have studied or if I asked you about, "Hey, when was the last time you had a cheeseburger?" You might look through your different memory boxes to try to find the appropriate memory that's going to pop out of that. But actually, when we look at studies about how memory works, we've actually realized that in reality, memories are always reconstructed from scratch. So there actually is not a box where the memories are stored and you're pulling it out from. Rather, what our brain does is that it forms an image of what the memory was. So if we were to expand it out, what we'd say is that your memory is kind of composed of these nodes of information. And the nodes of information are kept in your brain by making them related to each other. So it's kind of like saying, "Look, this thing needs to be in my brain because it's what allows this thing to exist." Well, this is in my brain because it allows this thing to exist, and so on and so forth. So all these bits of knowledge and bits of information actually relate to each other. And so because they relate to each other, your brain says, "Hey, you know what? This might actually be useful for me in terms of surviving and thriving. Which again, your brain really cares about because the alternative to not caring about this is that you die. So this is something that your brain thinks is really important. And all the information that we observe, the things that we take in, if you were to go around and everything that entered into your eyes was immediately stored into your brain directly as if it was going inside a box, then our brain would just explode because we'd be hit with so many pieces of information in a single day that we would run out of boxes to put it in. And so our brain needs to know what is actually worth keeping and what do we let go of and forget. And so if it's just a single piece of random information that doesn't seem to have any meaning, like the license plate of a car that you glanced at while you're on the bus, you're not going to that, or at least not for very long, because it's not related to anything. There's no meaning. And because it's not related to anything, your brain says, "You know, I probably don't need to keep this. It's not going to help me survive or thrive, and therefore it will bin it and throw it away." So when we recall a memory, what we're actually doing is we're saying, "What are all the things that that memory was related to?" And then we are stringing those things together in in order to create the memory from scratch. We're creating the memory from scratch. And this is why certain memories that were more meaningful to us, like, I mean, this is just an example, but this particular, whatever, memory here is composed of one, two, three, four, five different points of relevance. It impacted you in five different ways. And therefore, it's more likely to be memorable. Whereas if there was a memory that impacted you only in a single way, and it only was relevant in a very small way, then chances are that over time, you're gonna forget about this, which is why you've got certain memories in your childhood or growing up that are much more memorable, probably because it impacted you in multiple different ways, it affected you in multiple different ways, or it changed you or had more relevance to other areas of your brain rather than just one or two isolated points. And the reason that we know this reconstructed is that we look at people who have certain events that they think are either traumatic or just very memorable for them. And when we ask them years later, they'll often say, "Yes, I remember that event perfectly. For me, that event was crystal clear." Okay? So for them and in their perspective, the memory of this event is extremely clear and visceral and they can recall what time it was, where it was raining, the smell in the air, all of these sorts of things. Interestingly enough, what we actually find is that these people, when we compare their memory of the event with the reality of what actually happened, it tends to be very different. And the idea is that every time you think of an event, you are creating the event again. And your brain is not perfect, which means every time you create it, there is a chance of creating an error, making a mistake. So every time you recall the memory and recall the event, there is a chance of error. So if you think about the event one time, the chance of error might be 1% for example, just for example. But if you recall the event 100 times, your chance of error, well, it may not be 100% but it's significantly higher. You have had 100 times as many chances for error to enter into the event. And especially when there's no correction, what happens is that if this line in the middle, yellow line represents reality, then every time you recall the event, it gets further and further and further and further from reality. Because each time here, there's more error being introduced. So does that mean that you shouldn't revise anything that you study because every time you think of it, you're gonna get it wrong? No. The only reason that it deviates from reality is because there isn't a force that corrects it and says, "Ah, you were wrong. Go back. You were wrong. go back. So when we are revising, what we're actually doing is we're saying, "Okay, look, we're getting something wrong and then we're gonna correct it back to reality." So revision is still a good thing. But the interesting thing to really take away from this story is that our memory is not something that is fixed, that just sort of exists inside this box like we used to think it was. It is something that is actually incredibly dynamic. Every memory that you recall and think of is actually your brain reconstructing that story again from scratch. It's almost like just because a particular scene in a movie was familiar to you, it doesn't mean it was the same thing. They might have recreated that scene or in a game, when you load a new level, it's loading it from scratch. But hopefully, as you can imagine, in the initial event, if we were able to connect that to as many points as possible, then our brain has multiple different ways of recreating this memory. So for example, it might have thought, "Okay, this bit, I'm going to recreate the line that looks like this." But then you realize, "Hey, that's meant to connect to this thing, so this can't be right. It must actually in reality be like this." You would be able to self-correct because of the fact that you've got multiple different points that the knowledge is dependent on. So what we want to do in order to maximize our retention and improve our memory, is we want to make it so that we are maximizing number of things that the memory is related to. And when we increase the amount of things it's related to, our brain gets tricked into thinking that it's necessary for our survival or our ability to thrive, and therefore, our retention will also go up. Which means obviously we forget less and that whole positive spiral about how it changes your studying forever. So when memories are recalled more easily because there are more relationships and more points that it's connected to, then our attention becomes higher. So how do we actually do this? How do we do this process of increasing the things that it's related to? Well let's be really clear about what we mean by the word "related to something". In order for something to be related to another thing, we're basically saying that this point here, this particular fact, has a relationship with another point. A relationship. And that's a word that I'm going to be coming back to again and again throughout this course. Let's give some examples of how things can be related to each other in different ways so that you get a better understanding of how broad and specific this idea of relationship actually is. Our brain works in such a way that each piece of information is viewed in relation to other pieces of information. This piece of information only has meaning because of this. This piece of information only has meaning because of this or this or this or this. So it's the network effect that gives meaning. So for example, when we see the words "are", "a" and then "see", it might not mean a whole lot. They're just three letters. However, if we arrange them as A, R, C, suddenly it has a definition. If we arrange them in terms of C, A, R, it has a definition. There is nothing implicit in the shape of the C, the shape of the A, and the shape of the R that inherently makes it the right shapes to use to represent the concept of an automobile and a "ka" or the concept of an ark. It's simply something that we've just assigned to it. Yet, when we see the letters C-A-R in this order, we know that it means "ka". So the meaning of C-A-R in this word is given by their relationship to each other. And if we change this relationship just a little bit, we end up with an entirely different word that has an entirely different meaning. Likewise, if we string a bunch of these words together and we have multiple words put together, so let's say the car traveled in an ark. Now we can say that there is a sentence And the sentence is only relevant because the words are in relation to each other. If we rearrange the words in the sentence, so it says "travelled in an ark car", that becomes something that is kind of confusing and potentially means something different. Whereas if we say "in an ark car" and "travelled", this now just doesn't make sense at all. So the exact same combination given in a certain structure with certain specific relationships to each other, that allows our brain to assign it meaning. So the meaning is given by the relationship of the point with each other. Let's take some other examples. Let's say that we've watched a very compelling movie. And in this movie, there was a particular line of dialogue that was spoken by the main protagonist. And that line spoke to us at a very emotional level. And we really felt that, felt that in our soul. So that particular line of dialogue might speak to us so much that we're actually able to remember that line word for word after hearing it just once or twice. And that way our attention is really high because this particular line of dialogue was able to relate to our own life. And our own life is related to, obviously, lots of different components about who we are. You know, it is our life after all. So what that line of dialogue does is it entered into your mind, and then it inserted itself, it planted itself in such a way that it was relevant to you and many other aspects of your life. And therefore the retention was increased because it had meaning. It wasn't just a random line of dialogue. It was a line that actually had meaning. It had somewhere to belong. It had a relationship with the other bits of knowledge that you had already inside your brain. What about when we're meeting new people? When you first meet a new person, you might completely, straight away after hearing their name, immediately forget it. That's because you have no reference point to connect this person to. They're not related to your other friends. That name isn't related to anyone that you know, potentially, and so there's nothing to anchor that name onto. It's harder to remember because you can't relate them to anything. If this classmate that you're meeting doesn't have any friends, you're not even able to relate them through some mutual connection. They exist purely in isolation. And so it's even harder to remember who they are. If the name is a foreign name and you've never even heard of this word before, then it's even harder to remember this name drops even further. So the less we're able to relate to the information, the lower our retention is. Now let's take something that's a little bit more academic. Let's say we're taking the piece of information that sodium is a highly reactive metal and that actually if it interacts with oxygen can cause a violent explosive reaction. This knowledge in itself might exist in isolation. However, if you are inside a chemical materials lab and you're surrounded by sodium, huge vats, or I guess sodium wouldn't exist in vats, huge chunks of sodium that are just exposed and you see your friend open up their drink bottle and haphazardly squirt water into their mouth, then you may be quite worried given that sodium can potentially react with water so violently as to actually through the explosion. And in that case, this piece of information that sodium is a very reactive metal would be much more relevant to you and so your attention on it would be higher. In fact, imagine someone telling you, "Sodium, the metal that is surrounding you as you're inside this lab, is so reactive to water that if water touches it, it will explode and you could die." Imagine someone telling you that and then you actually forget that and then just squirt water all over the place. It just wouldn't happen because our brain is designed to be pretty good and generally speaking keeping us alive and because this information is related to other things that we know, it therefore increases in relevance, it's more connected to anything else and therefore our attention increases. But I'm not done yet, let me give you a few more examples just to really nail this point and home. Let's say that you are remembering all the symptoms of diabetes and you know that diabetes can actually cause damage to the blood vessels and that damage to the blood vessels can be so severe that your legs or your arms don't get enough blood supply and that will cause them to die and then you need to get that amputated. So that could be one symptom among a whole list of of different symptoms. And when you first learn it, it might just be a bunch of things to put onto your flashcards initially. But then if your family member develops diabetes and now it's no longer just a random piece of information, but it's your mum that has diabetes and it's your mum who might need to get their leg amputated. Now you don't even have to try to remember these symptoms. What you do is you can see your mother struggling with each of the symptoms of diabetes. You can see them controlling their food and their diet in order to reduce their sugar. You can see them struggling. You can see them rehabilitating after a surgery. There are so many other memories and other points in your mind that you can relate that information to so that this list of symptoms just becomes highly connected and our attention goes up. And you can imagine that you wouldn't even have to try to memorize the list of symptoms. You would simply be able to just think about what the symptoms are and it would naturally just occur to you. So now we don't even need to memorize it because we've related the symptoms to our own observations. And a very relevant example for you, let's say that you've studied this entire topic and then now you're doing some past paper questions. you get a bunch of these questions wrong. The material that you learn as a result of getting things wrong in a practice question and then realizing the right answer and then getting it right is actually stronger. You learn this more than the stuff that you might have already learned initially. So in getting something wrong and then getting it right again, we actually hold on to that information more strongly than something that we may have just gotten right straight off the bat. In fact, this is actually called the hypercorrection phenomenon or hypercorrection effect. And it means that stuff that we initially might not have thought of how we can apply the information, which we then forgot, we then have to apply it. By getting it wrong, it means that there's a reason for us to then learn it correctly because we know how we can apply it now. So this piece of information which initially might have seemed completely random and isolated, we're able to relate that to the idea that, "Hey, we can use this information to solve questions like this." And we've increased our attention because now we're able to relate it to another problem. And in fact, even more than that, if you're really trying hard to solve this problem, then you might have tried to draw on all the other bits of information that you had in your mind as well, and you still eventually got it wrong. means that when you learn this, the correct information again, you're not just relating it to the question, you're also relating it to all the thoughts that you had while you were making the question, which was all of this stuff as well. So you can see why past papers are effective when used well. It's just that when this is the only way to assign relevance, it's still inefficient because you'd need to do so many of these questions in order to find all of your little gaps that you'd have in order to be able to get this hypercorrection effect for absolutely everything. So it's still very inefficient to do that. But when used well at the very end of study, just to find the little gaps and create the connections, this is how it works. It's because it's increasing the number of things that that knowledge is related to. And actually you'll know that you can get certain questions wrong again and again and again and again because the information that allows you to get it right always seems random. It just seems like this random fact that you can just never get your head around. And in that case, doing questions again and again and again doesn't actually help. You just keep getting it wrong and wrong and wrong because you're still not relating it. So you can see even in this case, doing the question didn't actually help because ultimately in our brain we weren't able to make those connections. So once we start seeing information and learning, not just as a series of points that we're connecting together, saying, "Oh, this is fact number A, this is fact number B, this is fact number C. This is the equation. This is an example. This is the next equation." Or, "This is the quote, this is the character, this is the event that was developed. Oh, this is related to this theme. This is this theme and this is the other theme." When we stop seeing information as just a series of points, but instead we start seeing it as actually a web of interconnected information whereby each individual point is given meaning in your brain only because it's related to other things in your brain, then we realize that the most important thing to do to study smarter is not just try to ram in as many points as quickly as possible, but is actually to develop these relationships and form these webs as quickly and as densely as possible. So this web of connections that gives the information its meaning and therefore allows it to be memorable. This web, this is actually what we call structure. So the structure of learning, the structure of a topic is not in the what are all the facts I need to know. The structure of information comes from how do they relate to each other? How do they influence or depend on each other? Structure is not what we know, aka the facts, but how we know it in relation to other information. So it's almost like saying if each piece of information was a bit of wood, then the, you then structure is how we arrange those bits of wood in order to actually build the frame that supports a house. So the wood in itself isn't really that special or important. I mean, it's a necessary thing that you need in order to build a frame, but obviously the meaning is in the way that we arrange it to form our structure and how we build this house, in this case, the house of knowledge. And when we are recalling information from our memory, what we are doing is that we are actually calling on that structure. We are relying on our ability to think of this structure of how the information was arranged. It allows us to put the points together in the right order with the right meaning for each thing to eventually recall the actual memory that we wanted to recall. So if we don't have the structure, then we can't recall the information 'cause our brain might have the information just floating around in there, but it doesn't know what to do with it. Or it's already gone and forgotten it. Recalling information when you've got a really clear structure feels intuitive and it feels easy. It's like when you're thinking about something that you know from a hobby or a favorite book series or movie series, there isn't just a single direction that you attack it from. Rather, you can use that information freely because the structure and therefore your knowledge of it is fluid and free form and more robust. And on the other hand, when the structure is weak, we have to try really hard to remember even very basic details, like when we do flashcards or desperately try to recall something we've read once in a textbook or heard once in class, we have to put in all of that effort just to try to figure it out and it's on the tip of our tongue and we still can't get it. That's when the structure is weak. It just feels like there's this string of events that we need to follow in order to be able to figure it out. And that's when the structure is weak and you don't have everything connected together like this. So the type of learning that builds strong structures is called conceptual learning. And we're going to be focusing a lot on conceptual learning. The type of learning that builds weak or non-existent structures is called rote learning. And this is when you're just trying to memorize things again and again and again just by pure repetition. And it's very weak. So rote learning is inherently different from conceptual learning. Rote learning is very hard to save time. It is naturally a very time-consuming process, just psychologically speaking. You require the repetition there. And there are, again, certain advanced techniques that I will teach you that do allow you to save time a little bit, but these are techniques that, to be honest, like most high school students are not even capable of learning anyway, or they use it and overuse it so much that it almost becomes like a poison instead of a cure, and that they are so dependent on it that they sort of shoot themselves in the foot later because they're not actually able to use their knowledge very freely. They might have good recall of a few facts, but because they don't have a good structure to draw off, any curveball questions in the exams really throw them for a loop because they didn't rote learn that. So it's really time consuming, and even when you're saving time, it's always a last resort. And also, even if you are able to save time, it's only ever sort of fact-specific. So if you had a bunch of facts here, a list of facts, then you might be able to save time memorizing this list of facts, but it doesn't actually allow you to then learn this other list of facts any faster either. As opposed to conceptual learning where the more you do it, the faster you get because you're building a house, so it's much easier to add a second floor onto an existing house because the foundations are already there and you can add extensions and more rooms. And so it's easier to grow your knowledge 'cause there's more foundations to work off. And when you've got all these different connections in your brain and all these things that things are related to, then when you've got a new piece of information, there are so many possibilities that you can draw connections from that it's just much faster to make those connections. Whereas if you had someone that just wrote "Learnt It," it's literally just like, okay, I've learnt that, that exists, I've learnt this, all right, that exists, I've learned this, that exists. And then when there's a new piece of information, it's just there's nothing to relate it to because everything exists in isolation. There's no connections between anything. So, rote learning is very linear, very time consuming, very hard to save time. Conceptual learning is much faster. It gets faster the more you do it. It makes things easier as you learn more and more. And just over time, the topic becomes, feels more and more intuitive to you. And so the difference between the two is, you know, really like night and day. If we were to represent that in a graph, it would look something like this. If we have a graph of knowledge versus time, then what we'd see with rote learning is that initially we're learning, it's very linear, there's more and more to learn. So we're able to learn, and we're just continuing to memorize. But as I said, memorizing one fact doesn't allow you to learn the next thing faster. So it's just a very steady, linear relationship. But then actually what happens is that that starts to taper off and it starts to plateau and we hit kind of a limit in terms of our learning. And that's because of the fact that around here, we're actually running out of time. Okay, we actually don't have any time left to spend on memorizing more stuff. So this is when you've got thousands of different flashcards and it's taking you three hours just to do your flashcards every single day. You don't have time to make more flashcards. You don't have time to finish the flashcards that you've already made. You're getting half your flashcards wrong. It's starting to accumulate more and more. And then over time, what actually happens is that your learning actually ends up going down because you just get burned out completely and you're just completely overwhelmed. So this is an example of one of those spirals that I talked about. You're initially doing relatively, I guess, kind of okay and that you are learning. It's just that you're learning very linearly and eventually it's just not sustainable. So this point in time where it starts to really become a very bad idea to learn this way, it depends on how difficult the degree or the program is or the subjects are. In some situations, especially for really academic courses, this comes very, very early. Like within the first one to two weeks, there'll be people that already are not sustainable with using their flashcards or this rote learning technique. So in the earlier years of high school, it doesn't matter so much because it's just not as much content. But over time, when the material becomes a lot more challenging, this limit is approached very, very quickly. So as a personal example, when I was going through medical school, I'd probably have reached this point within the first two or three days of university because of the fact that there's just so much content to cover that it's just impossible to learn it this way. If you were to learn it this way, In the first week, you'd have like 2,000 flashcards to go through and it's just, you know, you wouldn't even try to do it that way because it's just so clearly impossible. So on the other hand, when you're learning through conceptual learning, initially it's a little bit slower because you're taking your time to figure things out. But as you figure out more and more, you're able to make connections faster and faster and faster. And so actually it becomes easier to make more connections. And occasionally maybe there's a difficult concept that you need to think about for a a little bit more, but then when you break through, you can continue that trajectory onwards. And so you're able to reach the required level of knowledge, number one, a lot earlier, but also with a lot less effort, and you don't risk this bad burnout period here. And obviously, you can also see that the slope is increasing over time, showing that actually, the topic gets easier the more you do it. So, and actually, if you were to continue this line across three years of the student's life, going all the way through high school, maybe even through university, you'll actually find that it will do something like this, whereas this person would actually do something like this. And they'll probably, this gap would actually be much, much wider as time goes on. In fact, actually maybe already you can think of people that are in your class that are over here while you're struggling over here. But don't worry, because if you learn the right technique, you can always turn things around and start your rise as well and narrow that gap. Or maybe you're the other way around. Maybe you're already learning like this So you can see how much further ahead you are compared to other people, in which case the techniques that I teach you in this course will allow you to do this even faster and widen that gap even more. So that's a summary of memory and the idea of retention and why it's so important to realize that having a good memory is about increasing the number of things that your brain is relating to. It's not about just cramming in as much information as possible and just revising it again and again and again, hoping the retention is high. It's actually about fundamentally shifting our perspective away from just knowledge and shifting our perspective towards really valuing the structure and relationship because time spent on learning this saves time on every other step after this by folds. スッ [BIRDS CHIRPING] (birds chirping) [Birds chirping] नहीं (indistinct chatter)  so 当你把手 네.