[SESLER GELİR] to take information in and straightaway know that it should relate things to it. And just because we want to create more relationships and we put in more effort and intention to make relationships, you'll find pretty quickly that you need to know exactly what to do and how to think in order for the relationships to be formed. Simply trying to make more relationships doesn't actually mean that our brain will then start to suddenly make more relationships. So there's actually a series of criteria that need to be met so that if your brain were to basically check these criteria off and say, "Hey, this information fulfills this criteria, therefore I'm going to create more relationships with that piece of information." So we didn't used to really know this so well years and years ago, but now with more modern research we kind of know what that criteria is, which helpful for us because all we need to do is every time we learn anything new, whether it's a single sentence, an entire paragraph, or an entire topic, we simply need to run it through this filter, put it through the criteria, and make sure it matches the criteria, and our brain will automatically do the rest and rapidly connect that information together. It feels like a magic trick, but it actually has a lot of logical foundation when you really think about how it makes sense. So this is how the criteria works. Remember before I said with the cave theory that our brain's main purpose is to solve problems in order for us to survive and thrive. So as long as it helps us survive and thrive or as long as we're able to trick our brain into thinking that learning this equation for our next maths exam is going to help us survive and thrive, our brain doesn't know any better. Now, we do need to make sure it does tick this criteria because again, based on the cave theory, back in the day, food was very scarce. And that means calories are scarce. And what is one of the most energy and calorie consuming organs in your body, that's right, it's the brain. And it takes a lot of energy to hold onto information and just retain everything. Like I said before, if you were to remember every single thing that is bombarding your brain every single day, your brain would just explode. So it doesn't do that. Because there is such a high cost of holding onto information, brain is extremely good at forgetting. And it's like a regular, very OCD cleaning person. It will occasionally just sort of sweep through all the memories that you have and if it's not related to anything else, say, "Okay, don't need to keep that, it's not worth the energy." And you might be thinking, "No, don't throw that away, I need that for my trigonometry exam." But your brain is saying, "This piece of trigonometry knowledge is not related to anything else in your brain. So therefore it must not be very important and so it will throw it away. And then you will say, "Don't throw it away, I need it for my exam." And your brain will say, "Why is it important?" And then you will say, "You know, honestly, I'm not really sure." And that's why your brain throws it away because even you don't know why it's important. So we trick the brain into holding on to information. When it's about to throw it away, we say, "No, no, no, no, no, no. This piece of information is related to all of this other stuff." And very important. Look, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to try to throw that away. You hold on to that. We're gonna retain that. Let's put it somewhere else. And we get that sweet, sweet sleep-dependent memory consolidation where we're then able to use that information and answer problems. And then our retention goes up. So because our brain is an incredibly efficient, frustratingly efficient, in fact, forgetting machine, we need to very rapidly make these connections by by fulfilling the following criteria. And actually, there's really only two things it needs to fulfill. The first is that it actually needs to solve a problem. And the second thing is that it needs to be connected or in some way, we need to be able to find a pattern. So solving a problem and finding a pattern. When I say solving a problem, It doesn't really matter so much what problem it's solving. So there's kind of this sort of hierarchy in terms of problems that your brain thinks is the most relevant and therefore will do the most to try to keep and connect. Those problems are the ones that are very emotionally charged. These are the ones that are very personally relevant and the ones that we are the most curious about. These types of problems that are very emotional or personal or we're really intensely curious about, these are things that your brain says, "You are clearly very hungry and incentivized to take this piece of information in. Let me store it somewhere important." And every piece of information that comes in is then looked at through that lens and is highly connected. It's sort of like if you had a jigsaw puzzle with all these bits that are filled in and You know what the picture is meant to look like at the end of it. When you look at it through this lens of trying to solve a problem, you take a single piece out and you think, "Where could this fit? How could I use it? Can I rotate it? Is it upside down? Where on the image is it? Do I see an area where I could be able to fit it?" And in doing so, you would probably, once you put the piece down, be able to close your and remember exactly the shape of that piece and exactly what was on it because you examined it so carefully to see where it fits. So we actually ended up memorizing that piece without even trying to memorize it. By just trying to see how it solves the problem, we actually ended up memorizing it, right? And that's the magic trick. If we don't look at it in terms of solving a problem, it's kind of like saying, "I have a bunch of jigsaw pieces here. Let me take one, look at it and put it down. Let me take another one, look at it and put it down. And then every hundred pieces you look at it and put it down and you think, "Oh wow, look, it connects to the piece next to it." And then a week later you look at it and you think, "I have no idea what image this is meant to have formed." So you go through it all again, try to make sense of it and make a few more connections. And then you do a past paper. You look at the image of what it was meant to look like and you think wow that's completely not what I had there I have to reshuffle all the stuff this is meant to look like this or this is meant to go here and now you're sign a formed image so you see when the application when they're trying to solve and use the information for an actual purpose when we do that then the information starts consolidating but until we actually start trying to deliberately use the information for a purpose our brain is in this passive, do not care, take it in, I'm gonna bin it later mentality. So that's a total waste of time. You can spend 10 hours studying but if your brain is doing that, you spent no hours actually learning anything. You go to sleep, wake up the next day, you'll have forgotten 90% of it. And I'm sure many of you will know that feeling. So the problems that are really personal and emotional or the ones we're really curious about, these are the ones that our brain says they're the most important. And the ones that are the least important are the ones that are more just sort of like technical, they're more surface level, they're more superficial. So this could be something that you don't really care about. For example, you learn about a particular essay and how a particular essay was written and then you need to answer a question about the literary techniques used in that essay. You don't care too much about the essay or the essay topic, you don't really care about the literary techniques, but the question is there, you need to answer it, so that's the kind of problem that your brain puts on a lower priority. The important thing though is, even though we want to try to make things as high priority as possible, we want to find a way to make ourselves more curious. We want to think, "Okay, look, I don't care about this essay, but the author had a really interesting life, and now you care a little bit more about the author." So imagine if it was instead of the author, if your friend was the author, and you care a lot about your friend, it's your best friend, or your parents, and they're like, "I poured my heart and soul "into this work, please look at it for me." Just because you care more about the person, you're gonna end up caring more about their work, even though you didn't actually care more about the topic. So by doing that, we've actually increased the priority in our brain for how relevant that information was. So we find all these different ways try and somehow make even the driest topic more interesting and something we care more about and we always frame it in a way of how can we learn this in order to solve a problem. Okay, not I'm gonna learn this now I'm gonna solve a problem. No, not step one I'm gonna learn it, step two I'm gonna solve a problem. It has to be the other way around. It has to be I want to solve a problem. I'm My friend is being mauled by a bear. I need to save them. That's the problem. We want to go back to our roots and think how did our brain adapt to learn. Our brain adapted to learn to solve problems, not just randomly learn things and then randomly solve problems afterwards. So we need to completely flip that. Number one, what type of problems can we solve? What are all the different types of problems? How can I make these problems more interesting? How can I be really curious about them. And the more you practice this, this in itself is a skill. And we get better and better at creating these problems the more we practice it. And so by doing that, we put our brain into this problem-solving very detective kind of mode, where the information is looked at, it's critically examined and we think, "I've got five different problems here. How can I solve these problems with this information? Maybe I can, maybe I can't." But the way of thinking about that means that when the information is entered into your brain, we're looking at it from so many different angles that it increases the chance of something actually sticking and a connection being formed. And once that first connection is formed, well, this thing might be connected to two other things. And we might think, "Oh, hey, look, I can actually connect it to this as well." And we learn another piece of information. And again, we hit it from all these different angles. How can I solve this question? Number one, question number two, question number three. How do I solve these three questions using this piece of information? Hey, maybe I can't, but actually, you know what? I can actually use this to solve question number four from the previous one, and you might form a new connection there. And oh look, now I can actually connect it like this as well. So you can see each piece of information falls into the web. It's connected as we go, rather than dump all the information and just like sift through it, very limply and then just see what ends up connecting kind of blindly. It's almost just like rummaging your hands through a puzzle box and then somehow two of the pieces match together. And you're like, "Ah, I've solved it." And you look at it and it's like, it's not even meant to be fit. You just kind of like rammed it together. So we want to be pretty intentional with the way that we're learning. And we want to say, okay, number one, step one is I want to have that really clear idea of what the problem is. And then once I feel curious to learn about it, then I can go through and start taking in some more of that information. So that's the first thing and we're going to go through some techniques that really break this step down and the step by step exactly what you need to do to activate this mentality. So don't worry about the exact technique quite yet, just remember this is the purpose. If you don't know this purpose, you can use the technique and be totally off. You need to have this purpose in mind so when you're using the technique, you know whether you're doing it right or wrong because you know whether you're intending it to have this purpose or an entirely different purpose. If you use the technique I teach you for the purpose of just trying to learn things through repetition, you clearly don't have the right mentality behind it so you're not going to find benefit in the technique. We need to know why we're doing something for the thing to actually make sense. So that was the first aspect. We need to be able to frame things so that it solves a problem. That's the first checklist in our brain. If our brain says, "Hey, this information helps us solve a problem," our attention shoots through the roof. The second thing is even if it doesn't solve a problem, if it fits into a pattern, our brain is really smart in that it says, "Hey, I don't know why this is relevant but the fact that I can create a pattern using this with so many other things makes me think there might be a use for this. Okay? So it's like if you're going out there and you see a certain berry and you think, "Hmm, this berry, although I've never seen it before, has all the features of every other poisonous berry that I've ever seen before. I think this berry is probably poisonous." You don't know it for a fact, but that's what your brain is doing to protect you and keep you safe. It's saying that hey you know I haven't hunted in this spot before but based on the trees and the type of plants that are here and the water and the environment and how this geography looks I'm pretty sure this fits the pattern of all the other places that I know are great hunting grounds. So you would invest energy and time into hunting there and get you some food. So it's this really really smart way of using patterns to say there's probably a problem we can solve using this even if we don't actually know that there's a problem and the human ability to find patterns is phenomenal. This is why you can look at the clouds. In fact you can look at pretty much anything that has texture and find a face in it. Our ability to detect faces is extremely well developed. In fact actually a lot of animals have very good facial detection and this is because if you're running through the savannah and there's tall grass and you see two dots and then another dot underneath it, you might think those are either just three random dots or it could be a face that's about to pounce out and hunt me. So as a result we have developed extremely precise and accurate pattern recognition. So let's take an example of how that pattern part might work when it comes to a subject like English or maths. So let's say that you're studying about a certain text in English, maybe a novel, you might find that the main character has certain patterns of behaving, which you may not have picked out unless you are deliberately looking for that pattern. That pattern might allow you to make sense of the theme a little bit more easily. It might allow you when you're doing the essay to discuss it a lot more fluently because you know it all belongs together rather than just being multiple different bits on a because you'd say, "Oh, that action, although it happened in a different chapter, is very much the same pattern as the previous action that he did, or it's in contrast to that." And so by creating these patterns, it means that our brain will just hold on to it more easily. Or if there's literary techniques, we might say, "Okay, we've got three different literary techniques." The idea of alliteration, rhetorical questions, and repetition throughout the text. What are the common features between these three techniques, which will allow you to understand the literary techniques to a deeper level and also your brain will just hold on to that because it's created a pattern between the three. So you really want to be looking for patterns wherever you can and so the techniques that I'll teach you will have steps and opportunities for you to then stop, look at things and find patterns that you may have missed and this really speeds up your ability to recall information during exams because instead of having to solve a problem every single time, there are certain clusters of patterns that you've already kept in your mind that you can just bring out and then that in itself comes with it an entire web and network of knowledge. So it's a almost like a little bit of a cognitive shortcut you can train and by finding lots of these different patterns. But again I'll go through the specific techniques later. So the the two things that we're checking off in our head as a criteria is does it help us solve a problem and does it fit into or can we find some kind of pattern out of this it doesn't even really matter what kind of pattern it's just some kind of pattern and you might have multiple patterns for the same piece of information all overlapping in different ways. And again we actually know that when we learn in this way that actually works we already know that intuitively So, have you ever sort of gone to the fridge because you were hungry or looking for something, and by the time you're in the kitchen and you open the fridge, you forgot why you were there? That's probably because you weren't specifically trying to solve a particular problem. You might have just been bored and gone to the fridge, and you open the fridge and you're looking into it, and now that there's a problem to solve, as in, "What am I going to take out of the fridge?" You realize that you actually have no idea why you're even standing in front of the fridge. So you end up opening the fridge door, looking at it blankly, closing the fridge door, and then going back to do what you were doing. So that's an example of how we haven't used this mentality. And so we are completely intentionless in our action, and our brain is in a completely passive state. So we don't want that blank fridge opening thing to be blank book opening, looking at it, gliding through the material, being very passive, closing the book, feeling great because we studied for five hours, going the next day, trying to solve a practice question and thinking, "Wait, did I even learn this?" And then you look through it and you think, "I remember reading this exact passage yesterday. Why did I not remember it?" It's because you didn't read it for a purpose. And then on the other hand, we can see the positive effect of doing this when there's a problem that you really need to solve. Maybe it's a problem with your life, your relationship with your family, or a loved one, maybe a pet is sick, or you've got some kind of personal problem, and you're really thinking about this, and you're in your room, and you're trying to solve this problem really, really intently, and you just can't wrap your head around it, and you don't come to a solution, and you go about live your daily life, and you hear something on the radio that makes you think, "Hey, what about this?" Then that actually allows you to solve the problem without even trying. That shows that information that's absorbed when the brain has a problem that it's chewing on, even the most random arbitrary information can actually come in and then be connected. So, that's an example of where you ended up learning things without even trying to learn it. As opposed to the first example where we're trying to study it and we're still unable to. So, the important thing here and this is actually I would say of all the things in this course that you really need to be able to understand is the stuff that I went through in this lesson. Because all the techniques that come after this depend on you being able to understand and execute on these theories. The idea that in order for us to use our brain the way that it's meant to be used, in order for us to activate that survive and thrive mentality of thinking, in order for us to be able to trick our brain into saying this is super important, please hold on to this information, it may be required for our surviving or thriving, and for us to not just forget it like the powerful forgetting machine our brain is, We need to find a way to make it highly connected and we do that by saying, "Hey, this helps us solve a problem," or "Hey, this is related to a pattern." And when we fulfill these criteria, we do not forget it and therefore our retention goes up. And we have 80% won.