Bu sistem hakkında bilgi ve öğrencilerden bazı and I'd like to use this opportunity to explain a few of those things to you a little bit more clearly so you've got better direction moving forward. The first thing that I'll say is that this system is actually meant to be on top of everything that you've learned so far. So what I mean by that is that we're not abandoning our processing of notes, we're not removing our visualizations. If we've already experimented with mind mapping or chunk mapping, we don't want to get rid of that by using this. What we want to do is we want to leverage the power of inquiry. So a great example is like this, if I ask you what did you have for lunch yesterday and I say don't tell me the answer, by now you've already thought about it. So the power of a question is in being able to focus your mind in a very specific way. So we know that trying to use your brain in a very focused way is actually not very easy to do because it's a little bit directionless. But the power of questions means that we can force our brain to think in a certain direction by asking the question and then letting our brain go into that problem-solving mode to try to answer it. So the questions we ask give direction and stare our brain and thinking in certain ways. So what we want to do with these inquiries is we want to stare our brain into the things that our brain is most curious about, that it's going to want to know the most, and importantly the ways that we can chunk the information, the trends, the similarities, the differences between the different concepts. We're going to ask questions about each concept, about its importance, about how it works, about its real-world applications, about any other question that you might be curious about. And what we want to do is we want to leave these questions relatively open. We want to leave these questions relatively open so that our brain has the ability to take that, look at the information that you've got in your textbook or your lecture slides or whatever you're learning from, and then take that information and focus in on it to find these answers. And in doing so, we'll be able to find these similarities and trends, we'll be able to chunk the information more, we'll be able to create more relationships between the ideas and we're going to start building a better organizational schema. In the later stages we're going to take that base ability and we're going to refine it and clean it up even more so that your chunks are better, your relationships are cleaner and more well prioritized and we're engaging even more of that higher order learning and driving that quality up. But the first step is we need to get used to the idea of using questioning to focus our brain on something. Now at this point I'll bring in a common mistake that I see people often doing and you'll see this when you look at the spot the issues challenges for people that are using this technique as well. Is the question answer approach being linearized. So when we ask a question we have all these different possible answers that we can pick from. And that is engaging higher-order learning. Because there are multiple concepts, multiple relationships, and we're now having to figure out how does it fit together, how do I represent this, how do I chunk it, how do I visualize and process it. These are all very difficult things to do. And this is increasing your intrinsic cognitive load. So you will feel that this is challenging, it's difficult, potentially very time-consuming when you're first doing it. And all of those things will get easier and it will get faster. But it's important that we are aware that this is a process that will make us think about things in a relational way. It will be uncomfortable, but it will result in a higher quality of encoding and a better organizational structure. So when we are answering each of the questions, we don't wanna have a question and then we don't wanna be typing an answer underneath it. We don't want it to be like test questions answering because that's going to take all of those relationships and connections and then it's going to funnel them into a very narrow linear set of notes that's not really representative of the full complexity or the scale or the volume of how those relationships are or how they're grouped together. It's very difficult to write out an explanation for three or even four different relationships and maybe how you know they interact or group together. That's very very difficult to type out and so we don't want to do that It's an unnecessary process. So what we're going to do is we're going to take these questions that we've created, we're going to use that to focus our brain. Let that curiosity and let that focus settle in. We're going to look through our material and we're going to find the answers to answering that question. And in doing so, we'll understand more about the chunks, we'll understand more about the relationships between the ideas. And your job is to take that and then process that into your notes through mind maps or chunk maps or just process notes as you're used to at this stage and then we'll start linking those processes together. So question, looking through the information, thinking about it and answering in your mind and then processing that on paper. By this point we shouldn't need the collecting step anymore at all. We can go straight from questions, thinking, process notes. We know we're not going to miss anything because other parts of the system will pick up on it. If there's a detail that's not answered in your question, that's fine. You can always go through the detail later and in a further revision, add it to flashcards and just chug that through. We can pick it up on a future session. That's okay. That's fine. What we don't want is we don't want to slow ourselves down right now by being inundated with all of that detail and slowed down and weighed down by that detail when actually what's most important is building that basic cognitive scaffold and structure to the information which is going to allow us to encode it more efficiently. So don't do the question/answer approach. Question, thinking, processing it straight out and you know have your list of questions, have your process notes and then make sure that you're submitting that for feedback, you know asking your peers on the discord, things like that to make sure that you're getting proper feedback on it and at this point also I'd like to remind you to make sure that you're really diligent with your COBE's experiential cycle. A lot of people will find that they're getting a little bit lazy with that. Starting from this point onwards up until maybe the next two stages, Ascent 1 and end of Ascent 2, this is one of the most difficult parts of the entire course because for most people it represents a complete perspective shift and actively controlling the encoding process and taking charge of their cognitive load which is incredibly complicated, incredibly difficult process when you're sort of deviating away. At this point, we need that engine that's going to make every attempt a little bit better than the previous attempt and it's going to be difficult to make those improvements without the cobe cycle. You can easily do this again and again and put in dozens of hours of practice into this technique and still not find that it's effective if we're not looking for each marginal gain that we can get through each cycle of cobes. So make sure that we're focusing on the co-ops and then use the traffic light system and get familiar with using these parts of inquiry based learning to actually facilitate chunking, cognitive load, relationships and then finally representing that in your process notes. Once you're comfortable with that, we'll take that into ascent one and the ascent stages. We will clean and refine that technique, make it much more efficient. You'll get more comfortable with it and by the end of the ascent stages, you'll be in in a position where your encoding ability is incredibly strong, and we can look at other efficiency improvements. 若您想要更 (birds chirping) (door creaking) [Telefon çalıyor.] 谢谢观看,下次见!