So we now know that in order to study efficiently and study more in a shorter period of time, we need to have a very high retention at the very beginning of the studying. That stops us from forgetting and relearning and ultimately wasting time. But in order for us to have a higher retention, information needs to be fundamentally not forgotten by our brain, which is always trying to eject information that it doesn't seem as relevant. So in order for us to trick our brain into saying, "Hey, this information is relevant, "please don't forget it," we need to make sure that it's connected highly to lots of other things, either things that we're learning or things that we already know. Because information only has meaning and relevance in relation to other information. So in order to trick our brain into saying, hey, this is highly related, and make it create those relationships, we look at information through two different lenses. The first lens was that of a problem-solving lens, and the second lens was that of a pattern-finding or pattern-creation lens. And when we look at it through these two different lenses, then our brain is activated into a problem-solving, survive or thrive mentality, which is the way that our brain has highly adapted to learn very efficiently. So when we have that survival thrive mentality, it means our brain is more willing to connect information as we're learning it, because we're not just passively taking things in. And the way that that kind of looks is that instead of having food in front of you, and then overeating and becoming obese because you just can't control yourself, and you just eat whatever's given in front of you, and then you struggle to digest it, and then you get really full, and then you try to vomit, and then you've got a tummy ache, and then in the exam you're just regurgitating. So when people say that they're just learning and then regurgitating, for some people that's truly the case because they're not properly eating what they're actually hungry for, they're just eating whatever is given to them in front of them. But when we say, hey, I have a problem to solve first and foremost, and then we learn, in that specific order, then we're saying, hey, I'm hungry, so I wanna eat this, not just, hey, look, there's food, let me eat all of it, and then afterwards, trying to figure out a way to kind of just digest it all, which is just a big mess. So this whole idea behind creating problems, creating curiosity, and then letting the curiosity dictate what we consume and how we think about it, and that whole process of learning, it actually has its own name. And it's a very rising, growing field in the learning research, and this is called inquiry-based learning. Inquiry-based learning, or sometimes called inquiry-learning models, or inquiry-learning frameworks. So inquiry-based learning is exactly as it sounds like. We're starting with inquiry. So we're basing our entire learning on a process of inquiry. So we don't actually have to just do this for one whole topic where we're saying, these are all the questions for this topic and then I go to learn it. We can actually break it down even more. We can say, okay, this is the whole topic. What are the questions that I have, the things that I'm curious about, the questions and problems that I can create? Once we have a few of those questions, and again, they don't have to be the best questions, they just have to be something that you feel relatively interested in the higher you can get it on that priority of problems, the better. But if you aren't able to create a question that is super emotional or something that you're intensely curious about, and even something that's just like an example past paper question that you've taken inspiration from, or some variation of that, it doesn't really matter so much. But we start off with a certain prompt, and then because we're interested to know about the answer to that, we then go to find the answer in whatever we're reading. And because of the fact that we're learning in order to answer the problem, you will find that the retention of whatever you read is straightaway higher. Now later we'll learn how we can actually pair this with an incredibly efficient note-taking system so we're not spending all of our time writing notes, but for now, we can actually just focus on doing this and getting this step right. Having that process of inquiry and then going out to seek that information, learn it, and then express that information in our own way, using some of the simple basic equipment that we covered in the gear check. Now, once we have answered our initial set of questions, we can then create more questions, because now we've got more to work with. Instead of having no knowledge on a topic, we now have a little bit of knowledge, because we just went to learn about it, to solve the previous problems. So, because we've got more to work with, we have more questions we can create. and then we can go and answer those. And then we can create more questions. So it's this constant process of questioning, thinking about what we want to know, then going out to take that information in. And then thinking about, hmm, where do I want to take my learning next? What's the next thing that I want to know? And this means that our learning is much more intentional and you're letting your brain decide what to learn in what order. And by doing this, we're actually allowing our brain to dictate the flow of learning, and therefore, when we learn it, it actually makes a lot more sense because we literally did it in the order in which our brain said, this is going to make the most sense. And now, there are a few big differences between inquiry-based learning and less effective conventional learning. The main difference is that conventional learning has a lot of overeating, in that you spend a lot of time studying material just because it's there to be studied and you just take it in and sort of shovel it into your brain. And then there's a separate process afterwards where you're trying to process it and you see what you forgot, you see what's left. And then based on what you process, you then go through it again to find all these different gaps. And when you're trying to fill the gaps, you just go through and learn it basically the same way that you learned it before, which is not very efficient. And then you find more gaps. So that's where that learning, relearning, forgetting, relearning thing comes from, is that you learned it initially, it didn't really quite make sense, but you didn't really care about it. You then go through it again to try to process and organize that information properly and create some structure out of it. But now you've forgotten so much that you don't really know where to start. And also, your brain isn't used to creating structure, so it kind of has to piece it together accidentally. So it's all a very inefficient, sort of omnidirectional sort of process. it's not very focused and your brain doesn't really like that. This is also why you can find it's very boring, or it's very tedious, or just not enjoyable, because it's just not something that your brain is used to doing. Instead, with inquiry-based learning, what it feels like is a very curious process of exploration. We're thinking about a topic and saying, "Okay, this is what I want to know." Then once we figure that out and we've written a few notes to just concrete that and consolidate that, we're thinking, "Okay, what next? What do I want to know next?" Then we're going to the next thing, and the next thing and the next thing. So we're always picking our path and we're always curious about what we're going to know. Now this way of thinking is something that's quite different to how most people study. So it will take a little bit of time to train your brain to be able to do this effectively and fluently. So what I'd actually suggest is that we practice this way of thinking first and then later on when we start adding a bit more technicality to it and make it a little bit more comprehensive and robust fill in any other gaps that are there. It's going to be a whole lot easier. But for now, we can just start by applying the basic strategy and some basic techniques so that we can just drill this and train our brain. And for absolute beginners who have never encountered this way of thinking before and you really want to make sure that you're training your brain the right way and building those proper foundations so that you can really shoot off later on in the course. I would suggest using something like the traffic light system where you say that there's a red light and a green light. And by default, the light is red, which means you stop. So red means stop. What this means is that you have all your study material, whether it's course guides or textbooks or lecture recordings or whatever it is where you're studying from, and you say, "Okay, first of all, I'm going to say "what am I curious about with this topic? "What are some of the questions that I have? "What are some of the problems that I could solve? how are some of the ways I could apply this information? And you just start getting used to creating those questions. A lot of students really, really struggle with just creating questions. But the thing is, you get better at creating questions the more you do that and you'll have plenty of time to get feedback throughout this course. If you keep holding off and only try to make the perfect questions to begin with, you're actually going to miss out on the ridiculously useful and beneficial learning that you get from just trial and error. So just start by trying to create a lot of good questions that ask yourself, "What do I want to know here? Where do I want to start? What's the biggest question I have about this topic right now?" So if you're learning about waves and physics, then you might want to start by asking the very simple question of, "Well, what is a wave?" And that's a very reasonable question. And the next question you might ask is, "How can I use waves?" or "Why do I need to know about waves?" So we're calibrating our sense of being in tune to our own curiosity and this again is another skill that we really want to develop. So the traffic light system is great for that. So on the red light, we create these questions, things that we're curious about, creating curiosity and there's always a way to make any subject relevant to you in some way. It's just the skill of being able to do that and it gets easier over time. Once you've got those questions, that is your indicator that you've turned the light green. So when you've got things that you're curious to learn about, then you have made the light green and that means that you can go and answer those questions. Those questions that you've just created, you can go and answer those questions. And in doing so, you're now going to be able to learn and you can use those basic note-taking techniques that we've covered before and you can learn the information in a really organic way. Don't worry too much about how similar or different it is to your previous way of learning. Just do whatever feels comfortable for you. But remember, your purpose is to answer those questions, not just get sucked into reading everything that's there in front of you and struggling to digest afterwards. We don't want to overeat. We which is what those questions were. Once we have learned what is a wave and why do we need to know about it, then we've answered our questions. So the light is red again because there's nothing we're curious about anymore. So we want to stop, we want to sit back, and we want to ask ourselves what now? What am I curious about now? You might have read that the next heading in your course guide was to do with diffraction. And so you might say, "Okay, diffraction. What is diffraction?" How is that relevant to waves? So you can see that we're doing a very basic process of connecting and then taking a new piece of information and looking at it from multiple angles and trying to relate it to everything that we've learned. So we ask a few questions that we'll be curious about, and then we go and make the light green, we learn about it, and then we stop, the light is red, we ask some more questions, the light is green, we go and fill them, The light is red, so we have to sit back, ask some more questions. The light is green, we go and answer them. And as you go, you'll realize that your number of questions that you can create increases. Initially, you only have two or three, but then eventually you have five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10 questions because there are just so many other things that you've learned about now that you can think about how they relate to each other. And this is gonna train your ability to create those relationships. And this becomes a foundational technique that you need to have under your belt before we go and do the really heavy climbing or some of the more advanced systems and techniques.