BOARD of GOVERNORS in supersession
of Medical Council of India
COMPETENCY BASED UNDERGRADUATE CURRICULUM
FOR THE INDIAN MEDICAL GRADUATE

Knows Knows how

Shows

Shows how

Observe

Demonstrate
Assist

Enumerate
Counsel

Performs

Prescribe

Describe

Integrate

Analyse

Guide

Communicate
Correlate

Interpret

Module 3
Critique

Assessment

Clinician Communicator Team Leader
Knowledge

Skills

Attitude

Collaborate
Professional

Values

Lifelong Learner

Responsiveness

Communication

Curriculum Implementation Support Program

Assessment Module for
Undergraduate Medical Education
2019

Medical Council of India
Pocket-14, Sector-8, Dwarka,
New Delhi 110 077

All rights reserved. No part of this publication/documents may be reproduced,
distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying,
recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written
permission from Academic Cell of Medical Council of India, except for the use in
Curriculum Implementation Support Program by medical teachers and institutions as
well as in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical reviews and certain other
non-commercial uses permitted by copyright law.

How to Cite: Medical Council of India. Assessment Module for
Undergraduate Medical Education Training Program, 2019: pp 1-29.

Expert Group

1. Dr. Avinash Supe
Former Director (ME & MH) and Dean, Professor,
Departments of G I Surgery and Medical Education
Seth GS Medical College and KEM Hospital, Mumbai – 400012

2. Dr. Krishna G. Seshadri
Member, Board of Management
Visiting Professor
Departments of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Medical Education
Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth, Puducherry - 607 403
3. Dr. R. Sajith Kumar
Professor and Head, Departments of Infectious Diseases and Medical Education
Convener, MCI Nodal Centre for Faculty Development
Government Medical College, Kottayam, Kerala – 686008
4. Dr. P.V. Chalam
Principal & Professor, Department of Surgery
Bhaskar Medical College, RR Dist., Telangana – 500075
5. Dr. Praveen Singh
Professor and Head, Departments of Anatomy and Medical Education
Convener, MCI Nodal Centre for Faculty Development
Pramukhswami Medical College, Karamsad, Gujarat - 388325
6. Dr. Tejinder Singh
Professor, Department of Medical Education
Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences & Research, Amritsar-143501.
7. Dr. P.V. Vijayaraghavan
Convener, MCI Nodal Centre for Faculty Development,
Vice Chancellor & Professor of Orthopedics,
Sri Ramachandra Medical College & Research Institute, Porur, Chennai-600116.
8. Dr. Subir K. Maulik
Professor, Department of Pharmacology
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi-110029
9. Dr. M Rajalakshmi
Chief Consultant, Academic Cell, Medical Council of India,
Pocket 14, Sector 8, Dwarka, New Delhi 110077.
Additional Contributors
1. Dr. Dinesh Kumar Badyal
Professor, Departments of Pharmacology and Medical Education
Convener, MCI Nodal Centre for Faculty Development
Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, Punjab – 141008
2. Dr. Mohan Khamgaonkar
Pro-Vice Chancellor,
Maharashtra University of Health Sciences
Mhasrul, Nashik-422004

Curriculum Implementation Support Program

Module - 3

Assessment

Guidelines for Assessment in
Competency Based UG Curriculum
1. Objectives of the Document
To help the reader to:
•

Understand the role and place of assessment in new competency based
curriculum

•

Understand the changes in assessment as per new curriculum.

•

Understand the differences between the traditional assessment and
Competency Based Assessment (CBA).

•

Understand the components of competency based assessment.

•

Understand the tools for competency based assessment.

•

Understand the role of feedback in assessment.

•

Plan, develop and implement CBA in the colleges and universities.

2. Glossary of terms used in the document
Summative assessment

An assessment conducted at the end of instruction to

(University examination)

check how much the student has learnt.

Formative assessment

An assessment conducted during the instruction with
the primary purpose of providing feedback for
improving learning.

Internal assessment

Range of assessments conducted by the teachers
teaching a particular subject with the express purpose
of knowing what is learnt and how it is learnt. Internal
assessment can have both formative and summative
functions.

Validity

Degree

to

which

the

inferences

drawn

from

assessment are supported by empirical evidence or
theoretical rationale.

1

Reliability

Degree of confidence that can be placed in the results.
Depending on the context, it can be in terms of
precision, consistency or reproducibility.

Competency

An observable activity of the health professional with a
judicious and consistent mix of knowledge, skills,
attitudes and communication.

3. Introduction
Competency based education has been defined as an outcome-based
approach to the design, implementation, assessment and evaluation of a medical
education program using an organizing framework of competencies 1. Much more
than a different style of teaching, competency based curriculum obligates a vastly
different perspective on assessment. It mandates greater emphasis on setting up an
ongoing and longitudinal assessment so that teachers can identify the stage of the
learner and decide whether they need further or different learning opportunities to
acquire competency. Assessment in competency based curriculum plays a crucial
role in its implementation.
Competency is not an all or none phenomenon. Rather it is incremental. The
role of teachers is to help the learner acquire and improve upon the competencies.
Competency based curriculum moves away from time bound education and looks at
competency as the end point. Consequently, we are no longer interested in
demonstration of discrete behaviours by the learners; rather we are interested in
application of these in each patient context. Thus, it is more about integration of the
required knowledge, skills and attitudes rather than anyone of them in isolation.
Therefore, assessment in competency based curriculum should incorporate
integration to the extent feasible while maintaining subject identity.

4. Purpose of assessment in competency based curriculum
While an obvious purpose of assessment in competency based curriculum is
to help the teachers decide if the students have acquired the desired competencies,
an equally important purpose is to help the students acquire and improve their
competencies. Quality assurance also requires quality assessment.
2

Major characteristics of competency based assessment are their longitudinal
nature, provision of developmental feedback and authentic settings, all of which
result in lowering the stakes on individual assessments. This has other important
implications also for assessment design. Since the stakes are low and purpose is to
improve learning, high standardization and psychometric rigor is not required.
Authenticity of assessment task is more important than its structure or objectivity.
Expert subjective judgment plays a major role in assessment of competencies.
This difference in perspective stems from three important characteristics of
competency based curriculum. First, that by definition, teaching and assessment has
to be in the context of competencies. Second, that discrete assessment of
knowledge, skills and attitudes may not always add up to a competency. Third and
probably the most important, that there is a high context specificity in assessment.
Performing competency ‘A’ well does not mean that the student can perform the
competency ‘B’ also as well. Similarly, assessment in demonstration room may not
be the same as assessment at the bedside. Moreover, many competencies like
communication, team work, sincerity etc. may not be amenable to reliable
assessment if done sparingly or only at summative examination.

Therefore, all

competencies need to be assessed multiple times and in different contexts. An
implication of this is that only one summative or end of year examination is not suited
for this purpose.
Utility of assessment is traditionally expressed as a notional concept
represented as using a product of validity, reliability, acceptability, feasibility and
educational impact.2 For CBA, validity and educational impact are the major
determinants of its utility. Despite subjective judgments being involved, their
reliability can be improved by increasing the number of assessors, assessments,
tasks and by involving all teachers of the department in CBA process. This is a
simple intervention to not only take care of subjectivity but also to improve ownership
of teaching-learning and assessment.3

3

5. How does CBA differ from traditional assessment?
Traditional assessments are easy to design, administer, score and analyse
compared to CBA but may not be able to provide complete information about the
stage of the student. Traditional assessments are snap shot observations of
learning, are generally not linked to instructions or outcomes and promote test taking
behaviour. They are fragmented and mainly focus on knowledge (sometimes skills).
CBA, on the other hand, provides more comprehensive information about not only
the current stage of the student but also about his progression and ascendency.
They are longitudinal, often with low stakes and help to reduce examination anxiety.
CBA is based on direct observation and therefore helps in generation of authentic
feedback, which helps the students to learn better. This process of assessment for
learning is crucial for the acquisition of competencies.
Competency based assessment should help in collecting and analysing
evidence to decide if a student is competent in relation to a required competency and
in relation to his/her stage of training. The underlying concept of competency – i.e.
the habitual and consistent use of knowledge, technical skills, clinical reasoning,
communication, emotions, values and reflection in daily practice for the benefit of the
individual and the community being served, again demands that the student should
consistently demonstrate the desired behaviour rather than only during the final
examination.
Competency based assessment aids in the process of learning. Effective
feedback is paramount to helping learners improve. CBA is an ongoing process so
that any deviation in learning can be recognized early and taken care of by providing
formative feedback. This concept is crucial and aligns very well with the basic
principles of competency based medical education viz. active involvement of the
learner, creating an authentic environment for learning, direct observation and
provision of formative feedback. CBA requires active participation of the student in
the form of self-assessment and reflections.4 The paradigm is reflected in figure 1.5

4

Figure 1. Paradigm of medical student assessment5
(Reproduced with permission from National Medical Journal of India)

Medical education literature distinguishes between competence (ability to do)
and performance (actually doing). In terms of Miller’s pyramid, competence would fall
under the ‘shows’ category while performance falls under ‘does’.6 For the
undergraduate students, most of the assessment would be up to ‘shows’ level. Since
they are not authorized to independently take care of the patient or are not directly in
charge of patient care, targeting the ‘does’ level will pose logistic difficulty.

6. What should be assessed?
Assessment requires specification of measurable and observable entities.
This could be in the form of whole tasks that contribute to one or more competencies
or assessment of a competency per se. Another approach is to break down the
individual competency into learning objectives related to the domains of knowledge,
skills, attitudes, communication etc. and then assess them individually. However, as
stated earlier, using individual domain framework may not always result in making an
accurate assessment of the specific competency. Therefore, efforts should be made
to include competencies in the assessment process as much as possible. CBA is
very useful to convey a message to the students to structure their learning around
competency framework.
5

The assessment opportunities can be broadly divided into ongoing and term
end. While the term end examinations (Summative assessment) will usually be
conducted by the Universities, the ongoing assessments are conducted by the
teachers teaching the subject and can be both formal and informal.
The summative assessment e.g. University examinations at the end of
professionals, are used for pass or fail decision. The purpose of such assessments
is to sample the learning and ensure quality. Since all competencies should be
assessed, summative assessments alone are not the option for CBA. For logistic
reasons, competencies like communication, team work, ethics, professionalism and
many procedural skills are also not assessable at term end examinations.
Ongoing assessment provides many options for this purpose. A blueprint may
be needed to decide which competencies should be assessed during internal
assessment and which should go to summative or University examinations. Informal
assessments should happen during teaching learning activities with the express
purpose of finding out the stage of the student and taking corrective action in
teaching-learning methodology on an ongoing basis. During lectures, small groups or
seminars, use of techniques like clickers, one-minute papers and muddiest point
provide valuable information to check understanding and provide developmental
feedback.7 Same can be done during practical/clinical teaching using one-minute
preceptor (OMP) or SNAPPS technique (Summarize history and findings, Narrow the
differential; Analyze the differential; Probe preceptor about uncertainties; Plan
management; Select case-related issues for self-study)8-10. Many of these do not
need to be considered for pass / fail decisions but are useful to aid learning and
acquire competencies. These can be planned by the teachers on a day to day basis
and modified depending on the tasks at hand.

6

Features of Competency Based Assessment (CBA)
•

CBA operates within the framework of competencies. Assessment tools
should align with competencies/objectives.

•

CBA should help to acquire competencies/objectives (assessment for
learning) and their certification (assessment of learning)

•

CBA is continuous and ongoing process with opportunities for providing
developmental feedback

•

Direct observation of students improves utility of CBA and feedback

•

Multiple assessors, multiple tools and multiple assessments improve the
validity and reliability of CBA

7. Formative & Internal Assessment (IA)
Formative assessment is an assessment conducted during the instruction with
the primary purpose of providing feedback for improving learning. It also helps the
teachers and learners to modify their teaching learning strategies. The feedback is
central to formative assessment and is linked to deep learning, seeking to explore
the educational literature and its pedagogical lessons for healthcare educational
practice. It provides inputs to both students and teachers regarding adequacy of
teaching-learning10. A variety of feedback principles and techniques can be used
depending on the context.11, 12
Although there can be a debate on the summative or formative nature of IA, it
still provides the best opportunities for formative purposes. IA is when assessment is
done by the teachers who have taught the subject. It overcomes the limitations of
day-to-day variability and allows larger sampling of topics, competencies and skills.
In competency based curriculum, IA provides useful avenues for both
formative and summative assessment. IA focuses on the content and process of
learning i.e. what and how students have learnt throughout the course. This
assessment gives priority to psychomotor, communication and affective domains.
These domains are usually not assessed by the traditional assessment methods. It
should involve all faculty members of a department (Senior Residents upwards) and
not just one or two senior teachers. This helps to build ownership of teaching7

learning and assessment as well as provide ‘hands-on’ experience in assessment to
all teachers. IA can be a very useful tool for assessing all competencies in any
competency based curriculum.
IA should not be considered as an assessment without external controls and
can be utilized in a manner to overcome some of its perceived weaknesses. Utility of
IA can be further improved by involving all teachers in the department and limiting
the contribution of individual teacher, test or tool.12

8. Designing a system of assessment
While designing an internal assessment, all domains of learning i.e. cognitive,
psychomotor and affective should be taken into account and weightage should be
assigned to these domains for assessment.
Miller’s pyramid (figure 2) provides a simple way to select appropriate tool for
assessment. Efforts should be made to climb higher in the pyramid. 6, 13The following
adapted example illustrates this:

Figure 2. Assessment methods as per levels of competency (Adapted from Ramani)13
OSCE: Objective Structured Clinical Examination, SP: Standardised/ Simulated Patients

The key to building validity and making CBA assessment useful is its
alignment with competencies/objectives. Including some aspects from competencies
of other phases is useful to assess integration of concepts. Some examples of such
alignment can be seen in the competency sheet given inTable1.

8

Table 1. Deriving assessment methods from objectives

A useful approach, especially for affective, psychomotor and communication
domains, is to adopt the concept of assessment toolbox. A toolbox is a listing of
available tools (and rating forms, if required), which are suggested for a particular
competency or sub-competency and aims at improving the value of assessment
data.14 The listed tools are suggestions only and can be freely used either singly or in
combination by teachers to suit particular requirements. Efforts should be made to
use multiple tools for a given competency to improve validity and reliability of
assessment.
While assessment will continue to be subject based, efforts must be made to
ensure that phase appropriate correlates are assessed to determine if the learner
has internalised and integrated the concept and its application.

a. Internal Assessment logistics
Scheduling of IA
A proposed schedule of tests for IA is given in Annexure 1. These are
minimum required numbers but more tests can be scheduled by departments as
required. An end of posting clinical assessment shall be conducted for each clinical
posting in each professional year. Prior to University examinations, departments can
conduct additional tests as and when required with the purpose of providing

9

formative feedback to the students. In subjects that are taught at more than one
phase, proportionate weightage must be given for internal assessment for each
Phase. For example, General Medicine must be assessed in second Professional,
third Professional Part I and third Professional Part II, independently. A student who
has not taken minimum required number of tests for IA each in theory and practical
will not be eligible for university examinations. Proper records of the work should be
maintained which will form the basis for the students' internal assessment and
should be available to the assessors at the time of inspection of the college by the
Medical Council of India.

Components of IA
(i)

Theory IA can include:

Written tests, should have essay questions,

short notes and creative writing experiences.
(ii)

Practical / Clinical IA can include: practical / clinical tests, Objective
Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) / Objective Structured Practical
Examination (OSPE), Directly Observed Procedural Skills (DOPS), Mini
Clinical Evaluation Exercise (mini-CEX), records maintenance and
attitudinal assessment.

(iii)

Assessment of Log-book. Log book should record all activities like
seminar, symposia, quizzes and other academic activities. Achievement
of certifiable competencies should also be recorded in logbooks. It should
be assessed regularly and submitted to the department. Up To twenty per
cent IA marks (Theory and Practical) should be from Log book
assessment.

(iv)

Internal Assessment for Professional development programme
(AETCOM) will include:
a. Written tests comprising of short notes and creative writing
experiences in each subject.
b. OSCE based clinical scenarios and/or viva voce. Skill competencies
acquired during the Professional Development Programme must be
tested during the clinical, practical and viva voce in every subject.

10

Colleges and teachers should try to build capacity to use a variety of
assessment tools. A number of tools are available in the form of assessment
toolbox.14 The construct validity and predictive utility of internal assessment is high.15
Many of the tools mentioned for IA may appear subjective. However, by virtue of
being high on validity and by conveying a message to the students not to ignore
skills, attitudes and communication (educational impact), they contribute to better
learning. Since stakes at IA are low, the use of expert subjective assessments to
cover areas which are not assessable by conventional objectivised assessment tools
is appropriate. There is plenty of evidence in literature to suggest that expert
subjective assessments can be as reliable as highly objective ones.16
The IA of broader specialties should also include marks from all the allied
specialties e.g. General Medicine should include marks of Psychiatry, Dermatology,
Venereology & Leprosy and Respiratory Medicine including tuberculosis, while
General Surgery should include Orthopaedics, Dentistry, Anaesthesiology and
Radio-diagnosis, so that students do not ignore these postings. The proportion of the
marks for each allied specialty shall be proportionate to the time of instruction
allotted to each. It may be noted that although very small contribution is being made
by allied subjects, yet it serves as motivator to the students to not miss these
postings. When subjects are taught in more than one phase, the assessment must
be done in each phase and must contribute proportionally to final internal
assessment.
Assessment of Foundation Course should be included in formative
assessment of first phase. Assessment of ECE should be included in formative as
well as in internal assessment in first phase subject wise. Assessment of electives
should contribute to internal assessment in final phase part-II. There should be at
least one assessment based on direct observation of skills, attitudes and
communication at all levels. Communication and attitudinal assessment should also
be built in to all assessments as far as possible. A log book must be used to record
these components. A sample format of log book is being published separately.

Feedback in IA
Feedback should be provided to students throughout the course so that they
are aware of their performance and remedial action can be initiated well in time. The
11

feedbacks need to be structured and the faculty and students must be sensitized to
giving and receiving feedback.11,12
The results of IA should be displayed on notice board within two weeks of the
test and an opportunity provided to the students to discuss the results and get
feedback on making their performance better. Universities should guide the colleges
regarding formulating policies for remedial measures for students who are either not
able to score qualifying marks or have missed on some assessments due to any
reason(s).
It is also recommended that students should sign with date whenever they are
shown IA records in token of having seen and discussed the marks. Internal
assessment marks will not be added to University examination marks and will
reflect as a separate head of passing at the summative examination.

Record keeping
The peculiarities of CBA, particularly its longitudinal nature and its use as a
measure of progression require a good record keeping. Such records can vary from
manual to electronic. In whatever form they are used, the essential features should
include regularity, availability to the students and a documentation of discussion on
the results (present status, feedback and suggestions for improvement) between the
student and the teacher(s). Many aspects can be covered in a group feedback while
some will require one to one discussion. The formats for use in Indian settings have
been published and can be suitably modified for local use.12
These concepts have been incorporated in the proposed GMER 2019 and are
reproduced below.

12

Excerpts from proposed GMER 2019
11.1.1 (b) Internal Assessment: Internal assessment shall be based on day-to-day
assessment. It shall relate to different ways in which learners participate in learning
process including assignments, preparation for seminar, clinical case presentation,
preparation of clinical case for discussion, clinical case study/problem solving
exercise, participation in project for health care in the community, proficiency in
carrying out a practical or a skill in small research project, a written test etc.
1.

Regular periodic examinations shall be conducted throughout the
course. There shall be no less than three internal assessment examinations
in each Preclinical / Para-clinical subject and no less than two examinations in
each clinical subject in a professional year. An end of posting clinical
assessment shall be conducted for each clinical posting in each professional
year.

2.

When subjects are taught in more than one phase, the internal assessment
must be done in each phase and must contribute proportionately to final
assessment. For example, General Medicine must be assessed in second
Professional, third Professional Part I and third Professional Part II,
independently.

3.

Day to day records and log book (including required skill certifications) should
be given importance in internal assessment. Internal assessment should be
based on competencies and skills.

4.

The final internal assessment in a broad clinical specialty (e.g. Surgery and
allied specialties etc.) shall comprise of marks from all the constituent
specialties. The proportion of the marks for each constituent specialty shall be
determined by the time of instruction allotted to each.

5.

Learners must secure at least 50% marks of the total marks (combined in
theory and practical / clinical; not less than 40 % marks in theory and practical
separately) assigned for internal assessment in a particular subject in order to
be eligible for appearing at the final University examination of that subject.
Internal assessment marks will reflect as separate head of passing at the
summative examination.

6.

The results of IA should be displayed on the notice board within a 1-2 week of
the test. Universities shall guide the colleges regarding formulating policies for
remedial measures for students who are either not able to score qualifying
marks or have missed on some assessments due to any reason.

7.

Learners must have completed the required certifiable competencies for that
phase of training and completed the log book appropriate for that phase of
training to be eligible for appearing at the final university examination of that
subject.

13

b. Summative assessment logistics (For Universities)
Summative assessment consists of University examinations. Each theory
paper will have 100 marks. Marks distribution as per proposed GMER 2019 for
various subjects in given in Table 2.
Table 2: Marks distribution for various subjects in University examinations
WrittenPhase of Course

Practicals /

Theory – Orals/
Total

Pass Criteria

Clinicals
Internal Assessment:

First Professional
Human Anatomy - 2 papers

200

100

Physiology - 2 papers

200

100

Biochemistry - 2 papers

200

100

50%combined in theory
and practical (not less

Pharmacology - 2 Papers

200

100

Pathology - 2 papers

200

100

Microbiology - 2 papers

200

100

Third Professional Part – I

paper

eligibility for appearing
for University

Second Professional

Forensic Medicine & Toxicology - 1

than 40% in each) for

Examinations
University Examination
Mandatory 50% marks
in theory and practical
(practical = practical/

100

100

clinical + viva)
[theory=theory paper(s)

Ophthalmology – 1 paper

100

100

only]

Otorhinolaryngology – 1 paper

100

100

Internal assessment

Community Medicine - 2 papers

200

100

marks are not to be
added to marks of the

Third Professional Part – II

University
General Medicine - 2 papers

200

200

General Surgery - 2 papers

200

200

should be shown

Pediatrics – 1 paper

100

100

separately in the grade

Obstetrics & Gynaecology - 2 papers 200

200

examinations and

card.

14

As per proposed GMER 2019, University examinations will be held in the month of
September for first & second phase and October for final phase part 1. The
examination for final phase part II will be held in the month of January (Table 3).

Table 3: Examinations schedule

Theory question paper (Knowledge part)-For Universities and
colleges
Universities should instruct paper setters to follow guidelines for paper setting as
given below:
1. Follow MCI competencies for paper setting in the subject.
2. Designing of question paper should take into consideration all levels of
knowledge domain e.g. Bloom’s taxonomy of cognitive domain. Use appropriate
verbs for the questions at each level to assess higher levels of learning.17 An
example is given below in Table 4. Use combination of various types of
questions e.g. structured essays (Long Answer Questions - LAQ), Short
Answers Questions (SAQ) and objective type questions (e.g. Multiple Choice
Questions - MCQ). Marks for each part should be indicated separately. MCQs if

15

used, should not have more than 20% weightage. Example of theory paper and
some examples of questions are given in Annexure 2.
3.

The question paper setter must sample the contents appropriately from
competencies. The blueprinting grid can help the paper setters to balance the
question papers in content related aspects as depicted below in Table 5.
Blueprinting will add to the value and quality of these assessments. Moderation
of theory question paper by subject expert must be arranged by Universities.

Table 4: Verbs in various levels in Knowledge domain (Bloom’s taxonomy) 17
Level
Knowledge
Comprehension

Application
Analysis
Synthesis
Evaluation

Suggested Verbs
Define, Describe, Draw, Find, Enumerate, Cite, Name, Identify, List, label,
Match, Sequence, Write, State
Discuss, Conclude, Articulate, Associate, Estimate, Rearrange,
Demonstrate understanding, Explain, Generalise, Identify, Illustrate,
Interpret, Review, Summarise
Apply, Choose, Compute, Modify, Solve, Prepare, Produce, Select, Show,
Transfer, Use
Analyse, Characterise, Classify, Compare, Contrast, Debate, Diagram,
Differentiate, Distinguish, Relate, Categorise
Compose, Construct, Create, Verify, Determine, Design, Develop,
Integrate, Organise, Plan, Produce, Propose, rewrite
Appraise, Assess, Conclude, Critic, Decide, Evaluate, judge, Justify,
Predict, Prioritise, Prove, Rank

Table 5: Blueprinting in knowledge domain
(Representative example only. Actual figures may vary with the subject and Phase)

Level
Knowledge
Comprehension
Application
Analysis
Synthesis
Evaluation
Total

Topic A
1
1
2
1
1
6(24%)

Topic B
2
1
1
1
1
6(24%)

Topic C
1
1
1
2
1
6(24%)

Topic D
1
2
1
2
1
7(28%)

Total
5 (20%)
5(20%)
5 (20%)
6(24%)
2 (8%)
2 (8%)
25 (100%)

16

Practical/Clinical examination
This part should include assessment in psychomotor and affective domain.
Assessment of clinical and procedural skills should be based on direct observations
by the examiners.

Avoid making this assessment mainly targeted to knowledge

domain only. e.g. by asking a learner in a room away from actual patient, “how
history was taken”. Instead, learner should be observed while he/she is taking
history.
The competencies dealing mainly with skills and affective domains in each
subject must be included. Many of the tools mentioned for formative assessment
may not be usable / feasible at the University examinations e.g. mini-CEX. However,
multiple

tools

like

case

presentations,

OSCE

and/or

OSPE

should

be

employed.11,14,18-22. The value of conventional case presentation should be improved
by having 1 or 2 longer (15 minutes or so) OSCE type stations, where examiners can
observe and assess complete history taking (e.g. family history, present history etc.)
and/or physical examination skill. This can be done either with check lists or using
global ratings. Not only will this improve the validity of case presentations, but also
provide an opportunity to assess attitudes and communication in context.
Pre- and para-clinical departments should make practical exercises
application oriented. Objective Structured Practical Examination (OSPE), OneMinute Preceptor (OMP), Directly Observed Procedural Skills (DOPS) etc. can be
suitably modified for this purpose. Practical tests should not become simply tests of
knowledge.
Multiple teachers should be involved in assessment. This will help in not only
taking care of subjectivity but also provide much needed training in assessment to
senior residents and assistant professors.
The use of multiple methods, by multiple examiners in multiple settings to
assess multiple competencies, blueprinting and longitudinal assessment help to
improve the reliability and validity of assessment.6, 18,23
The relevant provisions from proposed GMER 2019 and are reproduced below:

17

Excerpts from proposed GMER 2019
University Examinations
11.2.1 University examinations are to be designed with a view to ascertain whether
the candidate has acquired the necessary knowledge, minimal level of skills,
ethical and professional values with clear concepts of the fundamentals which
are necessary for him/her to function effectively and appropriately as a
physician of first contact. Assessment shall be carried out on an objective
basis to the extent possible.

11.2.2 Nature of questions will include different types such as structured essays
(Long Answer Questions - LAQ), Short Answers Questions (SAQ) and
objective type questions (e.g. Multiple Choice Questions - MCQ). Marks for
each part should be indicated separately. MCQs shall be accorded a
weightage of not more than 20% of the total theory marks. In subjects that
have two papers, the learner must secure at least 40% marks in each of the
papers with minimum 50% of marks in aggregate (both papers together) to
pass.
11.2.3 Practical/clinical examinations will be conducted in the laboratories and /or
hospital wards. The objective will be to assess proficiency and skills to
conduct experiments, interpret data and form logical conclusion. Clinical
cases kept in the examination must be common conditions that the learner
may encounter as a physician of first contact in the community. Selection of
rare syndromes and disorders as examination cases is to be discouraged.
Emphasis should be on candidate’s capability to elicit history, demonstrate
physical signs, write a case record, analyze the case and develop a
management plan.
11.2.4 Viva/oral examination should assess approach to patient management,
emergencies, attitudinal, ethical and professional values. Candidate’s skill in
interpretation of common investigative data, X-rays, identification of
specimens, ECG, etc. is to be also assessed.
11.2.5 There shall be one main examination in an academic year and a
supplementary examination to be held not later than 90 days after the
declaration of the results of the main examination.
11.2.6 A learner shall not be entitled to graduate after 10 years of his/her joining of
the first part of the MBBS course.

18

11.2.7 University Examinations shall be held as under:
(a)

First Professional

1.

The first Professional examination shall be held at the end of first Professional
training (1+12 months), in the subjects of Human Anatomy, Physiology and
Biochemistry.

2.

A maximum number of four permissible attempts would be available to clear the
first Professional University examination, whereby the first Professional course
will have to be cleared within 4 years of admission to the said course. Partial
attendance at any University examination shall be counted as an availed
attempt.

(b)

1.

(c)

Second Professional

The second Professional examination shall be held at the end of second
professional training (11 months), in the subjects of Pathology, Microbiology,
and Pharmacology.
Third Professional

1.

Third Professional Part I examination shall be held at end of third Professional
part 1 of training (12 months) in the subjects of Ophthalmology,
Otorhinolaryngology, Community Medicine and Forensic Medicine and
Toxicology

2.

Third Professional Part II - (Final Professional) examination shall be at the end
of training (14 months including 2 months of electives) in the subjects of
General Medicine, General Surgery, Obstetrics & Gynaecology and Pediatrics.
The disciplines of Orthopaedics, Anaesthesiology, Dentistry and
Radiodiagnosis will constitute 25% of the total theory marks incorporated as a
separate section in paper II of General Surgery.

3.

The discipline of Psychiatry and Dermatology, Venereology and Leprosy (DVL),
Respiratory Medicine including Tuberculosis will constitute 25% of the total
theory marks in General Medicine incorporated as a separate section in paper II
of General Medicine.

19

9. Capacity building
Considering the importance of CBA in making competency based curriculum
a success, preparing the faculty to decide and use appropriate tools is crucial.
Faculty needs to move beyond ‘conventional’ assessment methods. It is also
important to remember that usefulness of many newer tools depends on the way
they are used. Faculty also needs to be trained to develop their own toolbox
depending on resources, expertise and contextual factors.
The revised Basic Course Workshop (rBCW) in Medical Education
Technologies provides training in tools to be used for lower two levels of Miller’s
pyramid while the Advance Course in Medical Education (ACME) trains in those for
higher two levels. In addition, the trained faculty and Medical Education Units should
have in-house programs to build capacity for assessment. Involving junior faculty in
IA is a useful step to provide hands-on training in assessment. Sensitization and
training of all stakeholders at the University and Institutional level is required.
It is equally important to involve the student community and make them aware
of these changes. Many changes require a variance from established practices.
Foundation course and introductory sessions in each department should orient the
students to the changes in assessment.

10. Implementation & Monitoring / Curricular Governance
Internal assessment formats are to be developed by institutes as per
proposed GMER 2019. The changes in summative assessment (university
examination) are to be adopted by universities and details to be provided to the
affiliated colleges. Quality assurance techniques in formative assessment (self / peer
monitoring) and University examinations (question paper moderation by subject
experts, external monitoring or posting external observers/examiners) should be
employed to improve assessment.

11. Examples / Models
The suggested formats are provided in annexures.

20

12. Bibliography and Further reading:
1. Frank JR, Snell L, Ten Cate O et al. Competency-based medical education:
Theory to practice. Medical Teacher 2010; 32:638-45
2. Van der Vleuten CPM. The assessment of professional competence:
developments,

research

and

practical

implications. Adv

Health

Sci

Educ. 1996; 1: 41-67.
3. Sood R, Singh T. Assessment in medical education: evolving perspectives,
contemporary trends. National Med J India. 2012; 6: 357-60.
4. Fitzgerald JT, John B, Steven K, Patricia M, Santen AS, Kent JS et al.
Assessment challenges in competency-based education: A case study in
health professions education. Med Teacher. 2015; 38:1-9.
5. Mahajan R, Singh T. The national licentiate examination: pros and cons.
National Med J India. 2017: 30; 275-78.
6. van der Vleuten CPM, SchuwirthLWT, Scheele F, Driessen EW, Hodges B.
The assessment of professional competence: building blocks for theory
development. Best Pract Res Clin Obst Gynaecol. 2010; 24:703-19.
7. Thomas AA, Patricia CK. Classroom assessment techniques: A handbook for
college teachers. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 1993.
8. Modi JN, Anshu, Gupta P, Singh T. Teaching and assessing clinical reasoning
skills. Indian Pediatr. 2015; 52: 787-92.
9. Wolpaw T, Wolpaw D, Papp K. SNAPPS: A learner-centred model for
outpatient education. Acad Med. 2003;78: 893-98.
10. Singh T, Sood R. Workplace based assessment–measuring and shaping
clinical learning. Nat Med J India, 2013;26: 42-45.
11. Norcini J, Burch Vaneesa. Workplace based assessment as an educational
tool AMEE guide No. 31. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/5690073
(accessed Aug. 21, 2019).
12. Badyal DK, Singh T. Internal assessment for medical graduates in India:
concept and application. CHRISMED J Health Res. 2018;5: 253-58.
13. Ramani S, Leinster S. AMEE guide no. 34: Teaching in the clinical
environment. Med Teacher. 2008;30: 347-64.

21

14. ACGME. Toolbox of assessment methods ver 1.0 https://www.partners.org/
Assets/Documents/Graduate-Medical-Education/ToolTable.pdf

(accessed

Aug. 21, 2019).
15. Badyal DK, Singh S, Singh T. Construct validity and predictive utility of
internal assessment in undergraduate medical education. National Med J
India. 2017; 30:151-54.
16. Singh T. Student assessment: issues and dilemmas regarding objectivity.
National Med J India. 2012; 25: 287-90.
17. Bloom’s taxonomy of measurable verbs. https://www.utica.edu/academic
/Assessment/new/Blooms%20Taxonomy%20-%20Best.pdf (accessed Aug.
21, 2019).
18. Cox M, David I, Ronald E. Assessment in medical education. NEJM. 2007;29:
855-71.
19. Modi JN, Anshu, Gupta P, Singh T. Competency based education,
entrustment and assessment. Indian Pediatr. 2015; 52:413-18.
20. Joshi MK, Singh T, Badyal DK. Acceptability and feasibility of mini-clinical
evaluation exercise as a formative assessment tool for workplace-based
assessment for surgical postgraduate students. J PostgradMed.2017;63:1005
21. Gupta P, Dewan P, Singh T. Objective structured clinical examination (OSCE)
Revisited. Indian Pediatr. 2010; 47:911-20.
22. Singh T, Anshu. Internal assessment revisited. NatMed J India. 2009;22: 8284.
23. Singh T, Anshu, Modi JN. The quarter model: A proposed approach to intraining assessment for undergraduate students in Indian medical schools.
Indian Pediatr. 2012;49: 871-75.

22

Annexure 1
Suggested phase wise scheduling of tests for internal assessment for Colleges
(This is only a suggested sample plan. Local changes can be made if they conform to proposed GMER 2019)
Phase

Minimum Number of tests during the year

Remarks

1st

Human Anatomy 3, Physiology 3, Biochemistry 3, Community

•ECE assessment should be included subject

Medicine 1

wise
•There should be at least one short question
from AETCOM in each subject
•One of the 3 tests in preclinical subjects should
be prelim or pre-university examination

2nd

Pathology 3, Pharmacology 3, Microbiology 3,

•Clinical subjects should also be assessed at
end of each posting (EOP) – Theory and

Two tests for-

Practical

General Medicine (Including Psychiatry, Dermatology,

•There should be at least one short question

Venereology & Leprosy (DVL) and Respiratory Medicine

from AETCOM in each subject

including Tuberculosis), General Surgery (Including

•One of the 3 tests in Para-clinical subjects

Orthopaedics, Dentistry, Anaesthesiology and Radiodiagnosis),

should be prelim or pre-university examination

Obstetrics& Gynaecology, Forensic Medicine & Toxicology and
Community Medicine
End of posting (EOP) examination at each clinical posting
including those of allied subjects
23

3rd

Forensic Medicine &Toxicology 2, Community Medicine 2,

•Clinical subjects should also be tested at end of

Ophthalmology 2, Otorhinolaryngology 2

each posting (EOP)-Theory and Practical

Two tests for-

•There should be at least one short question

General Medicine (Including Psychiatry, Dermatology,

from AETCOM in each subject

Venereology & Leprosy (DVL) and Respiratory Medicine

•One of the tests in Ophthalmology,

including Tuberculosis), General Surgery (Including

Otorhinolaryngology /Forensic Medicine &

Orthopaedics, Anaesthesiology and Radiodiagnosis),

Toxicology/ Community Medicine should be

Pediatrics, Obstetrics &Gynaecology

prelim or pre-university examination

EOP examination at each clinical posting including allied
subjects
4th

Two Tests for-

•Clinical subjects should also be tested at end of

General Medicine (Including Psychiatry, Dermatology,

each posting (EOP)-Theory and Practical

Venereology & Leprosy (DVL) and Respiratory Medicine

•There should be at least one short question

including Tuberculosis), General Surgery (Including

from AETCOM in each subject

Orthopaedics, Anaesthesiology and Radiodiagnosis),

•One of the tests in General Medicine, General

Pediatrics, Obstetrics & Gynaecology

Surgery, Pediatrics and Obstetrics &
Gynaecology should be preliminary or pre-

EOP examination at each clinical posting including that in allied

university examination

subjects

•Assessment of electives to be included in IA

AETCOM: Attitude, Ethics and Communication
24

The internal assessment marks for each subject will be out of 100 for theory and out of 100 for practical/clinical (except in General
Medicine, General Surgery and Obstetrics & Gynaecology, in which theory and clinical will be of 200 marks each). Internal
assessment marks will reflect as a separate head of passing at the summative examination and will not be added to the University
marks.

Twenty five percent of weightage in theory tests in General Medicine and General Surgery should be given to allied subjects and
there should be at least one question from each allied subject.

25

Annexure 2
Examples of theory questions
Sl.
No.

Type
Long

Explanation

essay The question should pose a clinical/practical A 6 days old term neonate has presented with jaundice

question

problem to the students and require them to noted at 3 days of age. He is born out of normal delivery
apply

1

Examples

knowledge

and

integrate

it

giving

one

liners

question

stem

should be normal.

disciplines.

Avoid

questions.

The

with at home. On examination, he looks pale, has a liver of
as 5cms and spleen of 2 cms. Other systemic examination is

structured and marking distribution should be

a. What is your provisional diagnosis?

provided. Use action verbs from higher domains

b. Which other conditions need to be considered?

as given in this document.

c. Enumerate the lab tests that you will order and

Please avoid simple recall based questions.

their likely reports in each of the diagnosis that you

What is asked in the examination generally sets

considered.

the agenda of what and how the students learn.

d. Explain the physical findings in the light of
underlying derangements.
-

Describe the clinical features, complications and
management of type 2 diabetes mellitus. (3+3+4=10)

26

Sl.
No.
2

Type

Explanation

Short notes

These provide opportunity to sample a wider

Examples
1. What are the various ways in which acute

content, albeit in a short time. The questions
should be task oriented rather than Write a

glomerulonephritis can present during childhood?
2. What is the role of antibiotics in childhood

short note on xxx. (Two questions based on
ECE in Phase 1 in internal assessment) (Two

diarrhoeas?
3. What

questions based on integration in Phase 2 & 3
in internal assessment)

is

the

utility

of

routine

vitamin

K

administration during newborn period?
4. Compare and contrast the use of ramipril and
amlodipine in treatment of hypertension.

3

Reasoning

These provide excellent opportunities for testing

1. Which components of breast milk help in

Questions

integration, clinical reasoning and analytic

prevention of neonatal infections? How do they

ability of the student.

help in prevention of infection?
2. Plan immunization for a 2 years old totally unimmunized child.
3.

What is the physiological basis of origin of
respiratory sounds? How can they help us in
making a diagnosis?

4.

Explain why adrenaline is the preferred medication
in anaphylactic shock.

27

Sl.
No.
4

Type

Explanation

Examples

Short notes

(Pre- & Para-Clinical subjects: questions on Pre

Applied

applied aspect)

aspects

(Clinical subjects: questions on preclinical Clinical subjects: Explain patho-physiological basis of
basis)

5

&

Para-Clinical

subjects:

Describe

clinical

significance of half-life of drugs.

clinical features of heart failure

Short notes

(one question on AETCOM in all subjects in all Pharmacovigilance program of India

AETCOM

phases)

AETCOM: What are the rights of a patient in a hospital
setting

6

MCQs

MCQs should be

1. A 25 year old lady was using oral contraceptives successfully for last two years. She

scenario based,

got tuberculosis and was prescribed Rifampicin. She became pregnant after 2

single response

months of starting Rifampicin despite continuing the oral contraceptives. Which of

with 4 options in

the following effects of Rifampicin can be the reason for this?

answers.

A. Induction of oral contraceptive metabolism

one

liner

negative
in

stem

Avoid
and
terms
of

B. Stimulation of ovulation
C. Interruption of entero-hepatic circulation
D. Increased excretion of oral contraceptives

Key: A

question. Avoid
‘all of above’ and
‘none of above’
in options.

28

Sl.
No.

Type
MCQs

Explanation

Examples
2. A 2 year old child presents with excessive weight gain over last 1 week. He has puffy eyes,
pitting edema and normal blood pressure. Urine examination shows no RBCs but massive
proteinuria. Which of the following biochemical parameters is likely to be elevated in this
child?
a. Urea
b. Cholesterol
c. Creatinine
d. Uric acid

Key B

3. Which of the following term best describes the decreased effects of beta adrenergic agonists
in bronchial asthma after long term use?
A. Pharmacokinetic tolerance
B. Pharmacodynamic tolerance
C. Tachyphylaxis
D. Drug dependence

Key: B

Note: AETCOM question should be based on competencies (primarily knowledge based) acquired during the AETCOM module
training. At least one question in each paper of the clinical specialties should test knowledge - competencies acquired during the
professional development programme (AETCOM module); Skills competencies acquired during the Professional Development
programme (AETCOM module) must be tested during clinical, practical and viva.
In subjects that have two papers, the learner must secure at least 40% marks in each of the papers with minimum 50% of
marks in aggregate (both papers together) to pass in the said subject.

29

