(Video boyunca) to time management. And this is a system that I use on a daily basis when I really need to get stuff done, when I need to stay completely focused. This is the way that I'm able to maintain a flow state, a focus state for 10, 11, 12 hours a day without rest. Now, having said that, if I do it without rest, just because I can doesn't mean I should. So I might do that and I'll take breaks in between if I feel like I'm getting tired or I'm losing my edge or I'm losing my um optimimus. However, it just means that there is the ability to, if you really need to push stuff out, if you really need to be productive, then it's possible to enter into that sort of flow state for a long period of time by removing all these hidden gaps of time. So let's talk about attention management and how it can actually be a lot more productive than time management. So we'll have a look at that. So when we talk about time management, we, okay, the, like the definition here below seems really, really stupid, right? Time management, managing our time. But is that really what we're doing? Because it's not like we can actually do anything with time. Time will flow irrespective, you know, where time will flow. Even if we do nothing, the time is going there. It's not like we can control time. So we're not really managing itself, really at all. In fact, you could correct that by saying what we're doing is we're managing our perception of time, which we measure using things like clocks and things like that. But if we didn't have a clock, how would we even manage our time? How do we manage our time if we didn't have clocks? And that's a very interesting question. And that's the question that really opened me up to where number one, the main thing was much less stressful and ends up being way more productive. So the thing is that we, even without a clock, we might have a perception of time based on just our internal body clock. But the thing is that our perception of time is extremely linked to the activity that we're doing and our mindset during that activity. Like if you're doing something that's really fun, Time flies when you're having fun, right? Time is slow, very, very slow when you're going through something boring. So our perception of time is actually wildly inaccurate because it's so dependent on how we find the activity that we're doing. So if there were no clocks, then we would manage our time based on our perception of time, based on the activity that we're doing. Now here's the thing. What is the purpose of actually managing our time around a clock? What's the purpose of managing our time around a clock? It's not as if we say, I'm gonna do something at 3 p.m. Does it mean that we actually do it at 3 p.m.? If we are good? If everything goes well? Yes. But does it mean that when 3 p.m. hits, the universe makes it so that we do the activity? No. It's simply we need to be able to manage our activities in such a way that we are able to, at 3 p.m., start this activity. So what ends up happening is that, if you really think about this, there are certain times that need to be obeyed. You need to get to school at a certain time, let's say 9 a.m., you need to get to school. You need to finish school, then you finish school. Let's say at 3 p.m., you finish school. You need to have dinner, let's say at 6 p.m. You need to go to sleep at, let's say, 10, 30 p.m. Okay, or 11 p.m. So there are certain times, little sort of milestones and checkpoints, you know, the time you need to wake up, let's say 7 a.m. Between these milestones and checkpoints, what is the value of actually knowing what time it is, other than knowing how many hours until school's finished? And the thing is, there isn't really a lot of point. It doesn't really matter what time it is between these areas, as long as we know that we're not late. As long as we know when this time is, when these big milestone times are, the rest of it doesn't even matter. And actually, I would even argue that it doesn't even matter when you know school finishes because of the fact that even without a clock, you're gonna know school is finished based on the fact that everyone is going home. So then what are we doing in between? Well, if the idea of having time associated in the times between doesn't actually matter, because all we're gonna be doing is filling it with activities anyway, then instead of trying to manage time through literally setting times on a calendar and trying to do things, why don't we actually manage the activity directly? So we're really managing the activity that we're doing. But it's not about managing activity, right? because the activity that you're doing might be, let's say, studying. Does that mean that you're gonna get good quality studying done? No, not unless you have a high level of focus and attention. And that's the key, is that actually, what we need to be managing is our attention. And attention management is a game changer. When you start thinking about your day as a flow of time where you are controlling what you are paying attention to at any point in time, rather than activities scheduled at various different times. It really changes the game. It's the equivalent of really looking at time management as kind of like studying, where you're doing the thing, but it's a little bit meaningless. Like studying is meaningless if it's not producing the learning, right? So focusing on the learning is the most important part. That's where your target should be, is getting good learning, not just doing study, right? Hopefully we know that by now. Same thing with time management. Managing your time is kind of pointless in a way, because you could manage your time the best way possible, but if you're not paying attention to the right thing at that time, you're not actually gonna get it done. You're not gonna finish it to a high quality. So the schedule is gonna fall apart, or you're just not gonna produce a good output or the result's not gonna be good. So whatever time you try to manage, if the attention wasn't done properly, none of this stuff actually matters anyway. You'll be under time, you'll be over time, you'll be more stressed 'cause you're not meeting your schedule or whatever it is. And so we can actually swap completely. So I no longer do what I would call time management. I only use attention management. So let's illustrate what attention management is a little bit more, and we'll go through some examples. So attention management, to be super clear, is managing where your attention is, okay? Where is your attention? And it starts by thinking, what are you thinking about? Which is why the decision or delays activity is so important because it builds a skill of being aware of what you're thinking about at what time. So let's think about this. Let's think about this. Let's have a schedule. Here's an example schedule, and we're gonna fill this out. This is a schedule that was made through time management. General, normal time management. And this might be a time management schedule that you would have created. 7.30 to 8.00 a.m., your morning routine, wash, brush your teeth, whatever it is, get changed. 8.00 a.m. to 9.00 a.m., go to school. 9.00 to 3.00, be at school. 3.00 to 3.30, go to tennis. 3.30 to 4.30, play tennis. 4.30 to 5.30, go home. 5.30 to 6.30, settle in, unpack, get changed, have a shower. 6.30 to 7, have dinner. 7 to 9, do your homework. 9 to 10, maybe more homework, maybe study, maybe relax, buff the time. 10 to 11, I don't know, like you need to relax at some point, right? And then like 11 o'clock plus, you really should be sleeping, but it's like study more maybe at that time? depending on how good you are at your study efficiency. So this is based on time management. So if someone said to you, you need to be more efficient with your time. And you look at the schedule, it's like, this is chock a block, you know? Like, where are you gonna, okay, I'm either gonna take out relaxation, take out sleep, or take out my buffer time, which is probably not good, because it makes everything too inflexible. What can I do here? What can I do? Well, now let's look at it in terms of attention management. So what we're gonna do is look at, Where is our attention at each point? During our morning routine, where is our attention? Where is our attention during the morning routine? Our attention is in brushing our teeth, having breakfast, getting changed maybe. So here's the thing. Can you do this without paying attention to it? Can you brush your teeth without paying attention to brushing your teeth? Can you get changed without paying attention to getting changed? Some people, the answer will be yes, I could do that. Some people, the answer will be no. For me, it's kind of 50/50. Personally, some days I just like, even brushing my teeth, like if I'm not paying attention, I will just like brush the same tooth for like 30 seconds. But some days I'm really feeling on my game and I don't have to be. So this is the thing is, I'm being aware of my attention at each point throughout the day. So an attention management routine would say, okay, let's say in the morning, I need to focus on my morning routine. So in here, it's exactly the same. Go to school. Where is my attention? Well, I'm taking the train and then the bus to get to school. I kind of need to pay attention where to get off the bus, get on the bus and on and off the train. But other than that, my attention really is nowhere. In fact, where is my attention? It might be scrolling through Facebook or Instagram. My attention might not be doing anything at this time. And this is an area, an attention gap. This is a hidden area of time that you could be utilizing. So maybe you could use this to do some of the flashcards that we're due. Maybe you can use this to do a little bit of pre-study, maybe a very brief aim step, maybe a mental mind map or something. And in that hour, even if you're filling in 20, 30 minutes of this time, you have just created 20 minutes of time that you would not normally have had with no expense because of attention management. Now you're at school. What are you paying attention to in school? Okay, hopefully if you're paying attention in school, you're paying attention at school. So there's nothing really there. Now you could say, you could use the lunch break. What am I doing in the lunch break? Well, you wanna be paying attention to relaxing, right? Eating lunch with your friends or whatever it is. And that's good, you know, do that. Don't like soak up every part of your time to study or anything, definitely not. So use that time, use that time, focus on school, Focus on enjoying your time spent with your friends and all of that sort of stuff. That's all good. Three to 3.30, go to tennis. Oh, well, that's another area where I could possibly be doing something else because the act of going to tennis doesn't actually take much attention. I simply need to get in a car and go there or walk across the road or something. And in the time in between, what am I actually doing? Just like thinking mindlessly. Well, maybe I could use that mindfully and maybe here I'm doing my mental mind map of everything that I learned in school that day. Get a bit of interleaving in there as well. Playing tennis, you probably have to pay attention during that. Going home, well look, there's another little opportunity here. Another opportunity maybe here. Let's say for example, when you're going home, in that hour that you're going home, at least 40 minutes of this hour, you just wanna like relax. You just wanna turn off and not think about anything. And that's all good. You can do that. That's still intentional. You're saying my attention is going to be on relaxing, and that's fine. But let's say you've got 20 minutes and you're like, okay, I could spend 20 minutes going through my flashcards or doing an aim step for something that, or a shoot step, planning my shoot step, just building the layer one, the logic for something that I learned at school. You could do that during that time. When you get home, settling, having a shower. Sometimes when I'm in the shower, I'll feel like I still wanna be thinking about stuff. And I might do something, you know, mentally, like a mind map or something, while I'm having a shower. Settling in, getting home, maybe you wanna use that time to relax. Okay, let's say for example, we're gonna use that time to relax. We're having dinner, you know, we need to pay attention to having dinner. Then we're doing our homework, we're paying attention to doing our homework, and then the buffer and whatever else there is. But here's the thing is that throughout the day, we actually found three opportunities that we could use. Where combined, that could be one additional hour that's spent on maybe, let's say, studying. which means that there's one less hour of studying that you need to do later in this day. So we have actually just created time out of pretty much thin air, we have made time. And so this is where time management starts feeling like it just doesn't even make sense. Time management starts to not even make sense because when you think about what your attention is doing in a spectrum of time management, it's like, okay, I'm waking up at 7 a.m. Time is flowing on. But when I think about what I'm actually doing in that time, it's like, during this time I'm like brushing my teeth and then for a period of time, you sort of like disappear. It's kind of like, I'm not really doing anything. Stuff is happening to my physical body. I'm being transported from one place to another. And then I arrive at school and then like school is happening and then like, there's a gap there. And then there's tennis. And then I go home and then like, there's like this question mark of just like, Time sort of passes. Time sort of passes. So during that time that just mysteriously passes, what's actually happening? What's your brain actually doing during that time? And this is the magic of it. Is because now when we are paying attention to our attention, we can flow. We can flow from one task to the next with no delay because now we don't care about what time it is when we do a task, we simply care about the task itself and we're gonna do it when we finish the first one. We are wanting to do the first one to a reasonable level of speed versus quality. And normally, as I've mentioned before, we're normally going about as fast as we can without reducing quality. So as I mentioned before, the myth behind speed and output and rushing. We don't want to rush, so we don't often have to worry about going any faster. The thing we need to worry about is being focused, right? Being single-mindedly focused to make sure we get it done at an acceptable level of quality and we're not making mistakes and wasting time fixing mistakes. So the amount of time it takes for us to do this activity is gonna be relatively set no matter what. It's not gonna take us longer or shorter just because of the fact that we had it in our schedule. Which means now, there is no reason for us to under or over schedule because it doesn't actually matter what time we finish. Now combine that with something like the priority 0+1 system. And then we know priority 1 is the most important thing for us to do. Then priority 2 is the next most important thing to do. So simply, all we do is we finish this and once we are done we move on to this. And then we do that. It doesn't matter if we finish this 15 minutes late or early or whatever. It's like we've done this, now we do this and then we do that and then we do this. So what this looks like is that it removes all the decisional delays between activities because it doesn't actually matter about time anymore. The only thing we need to make sure of is that we stay to our big checkpoints throughout the day. So an attention management schedule looks like this. These are the checkpoints. be at school at 9am. Sorry, I need to leave for school at 8am and I need to get at school at 9am. School is 9 till 3. I need to start tennis at 5.30pm and then I finish tennis at 4.30pm and then I'm going home and settling in and showering and all of that sort of stuff and dinner is at 6.30pm and then I need to get to sleep at 11pm. So all the time in the middle is purely filled with whatever activity that we need to do. So now we apply the priority 0+1. What's our first priority here? Let's say that the number one priority for the day is that you want to make sure that you get a decent amount of study done. Great! First priority is get some study done. All right, well, we'll fit some study in here and we'll fit some study in, well, this is dead zone. We can't really do anything else here other than school. we'll fit some study in here and then we'll fit some, well this is dead zone because we have to pay attention at tennis, but between that and dinner time we can fit some study in there and then if we have time left over then okay buffer that but then we'll do priority number two which might be to, I don't know, like study a different topic or hang out with friends or whatever it is and that's priority two there and priority number three is here and that's what attention management looks like. You simply do the first priority first and you just flow from priority to priority until you basically just are able to get it done. And it means that your time is constantly filled. Not because you're trying to fill the time, but because it's impossible for you to just disappear and not exist during a period of time. And period of time, like for example, when you're going to school maybe, or like going from school to tennis, where you're not actually doing anything meaningful in that time at all, yet time is still passing. And because of the fact that you know that you're like not really doing anything productive, you can just use that. And this is very useful because then you can be more aware of where you're procrastinating. You might start scrolling through Facebook and then you think, "Where's my attention right now? My attention at the moment is on Facebook. Where do I want it to be? Well, I want it to be on study. So then we stop that, we give ourselves a chance to stop procrastinating and get on to that attention management. And we flow in terms of our attention from activity to activity to activity to activity without any break. And this is how you're able to navigate an entire day very intentionally, where literally almost every single minute of your time is used exactly the way that you wanted it to be used. and you have to worry very little about the numbers that are on the clock as long as you're meeting the thing on the clock. Now you might have let's say priority 2 which you think is only gonna take you 30 minutes that day and you've got a 30 minute slot let's say right here. Okay so instead of doing priority number 1 there you'd say okay I'm gonna actually do priority number 2 right there because I can get it done really really quickly. So you do that and you've got 30 minutes spare then you go and do priority number 1. So, you're just constantly being very intentional with the way that you use your time. You're paying attention to your attention and you're thinking, "Is my attention where I intend it to be?" And if not, you simply do what you intend to do during that time. And now you don't have to worry so much about scheduling everything so carefully on a schedule and worrying too much about the numbers. So in my mind, my days, although they are very packed, actually seem very simple because I'm just thinking about what priority I can crack out at any given time. Once I finish an activity, I just think, "Okay, what am I doing now? Oh, I'm doing this priority. Great. I'm just going to get into it." and I just do it and I do it and I finish that and it's like, all right, next one. And I just go and go and go and do the next one. And if I think I need to take a break, I'll just take a break. And then even when I'm taking a break, I'm thinking, where is my attention? My attention is on taking a break. That's great. And then use optimized for focus rest timing, time that break so I don't overrun it. 10 minutes, 15 minutes later, it's like, okay, cool, great. Now where's my attention? Well, my attention now needs to be back on study. So I bring it back onto study. So it trains your ability to really stay in flow. Again, this is a relatively more advanced technique, however it is potentially extremely effective especially when paired with something like the Priority Zero Plus One system, which naturally this system of prioritization is incredibly flexible. If you've already used this, you already will have realized that the Priority Zero Plus One is so flexible that it almost feels like you have way too much time to spare in between. That's great because when you use attention management, all of that extra time in between, you can actually fill that very easily because of the fact you have a task management system where you know all the tasks you need to do so you know you can always fill that time with whatever you need to fill it with. You have a very clear set of priorities so that if you need to fill it with something that's a higher or lower priority, you can do that. At the end of every day, every moment of the day will spend exactly as you intended it to be spent. Whether that's relaxing, whether that's spending time with friends, family, watching a movie or studying, the time will spend exactly how you wanted it to. And even if it's watching YouTube, going through Facebook, Instagram, you know, that's all good as long as that's what you intend to do. And you feel very fulfilled and satisfied at the end of the day. And it's not stressful at all. And you just maintain that flow. And it's a lot easier to deal with. So, as a quick recap, we're realizing that time management has some flaws in itself because of the fact that we're not really managing time anyway, we're managing our perception of time and it doesn't actually matter what time it is as long as we get the activity that we wanted to do done. So it's really more about our activity and our tasks and the ability to do our activity and our tasks actually depends on our attention. And also, we know that generally speaking, we are working at a pretty decent speed in order to make sure that the quality is good enough anyway. And the most important thing is for us to be focused and manage our attention to do that anyway. So we already know that the most important thing is to just get our stuff done. That's the reason we're scheduling in the first place. We already know that while we're doing it, the most important thing is to be focused. So if we're able to just do an activity and then move on to the next activity and move on to the next activity without having to worry about the time, then we already know that that is going to be the fastest possible way to finish all those tasks. It's actually the fastest possible way to finish it. It's the fastest possible way because there is no waste of time between one activity and the next and we can't speed up the activity itself anyway. So if we're already doing the activity the fastest possible way and immediately after we're simply shifting our attention to the next intentional thing which is the next activity and there is very little or no delay between that then and we're doing this activity as as fast as possible anyway, then overall, the way we spent our day must have been the fastest possible way to do it anyway. So actually, it doesn't matter how we would have scheduled it, because it's not possible for us to schedule it faster than the fastest possible way. So even if you said one o'clock to two o'clock, and then two o'clock to three o'clock, and then three o'clock to four o'clock, and then you do it through attention management and you finish this at, instead of two o'clock, you finish this at 2.34, you're 34 minutes over time. But it's like, okay, so if you had scheduled that from one to two, will you magically have been able to do it between one to two anyway? Unless you were wasting time doing it normally, then no, it would have taken you the same amount of time anyway to do it. So then your schedule just would have been broken. And then you would have had to just reschedule it. So the perfect schedule will end up looking like when you reflect on how long it actually took to do each thing, it will have looked exactly the same as attention management anyway. It's just that attention management acknowledges the fact that you're working fast and the main issue is the time between activities. So it just doesn't worry about the time. So 2.34 you start this one and you finish this one at 3.17. And then you start this one at 3.18 and you work till 4.25. and now you're 25 minutes over time, but it's like, you know, that's actually still the fastest possible way you would have been able to achieve it anyway, no matter how you set it out in your schedule. So actually, we may as well not actually bother even scheduling it. We just say what you intend to do during the time, and we simply be very aware of where our attention is, and we shift our attention from task to task throughout the entire day. It's not easy to do especially when you're just starting out. It does require a very high level of self-awareness. It requires a high level of being aware of how you're spending your time. So there is a number of stages that you need to reach before you're able to use attention management fluidly and fluently without exploding your brain. So we'll have a worksheet as usual. If you just work through that worksheet you'll get to a point where you're able to do attention management more. Don't rush the stages, get to a point where you're comfortable with each stage and once you're comfortable with each stage you can move on to the next stage until eventually you are running like a very well-oiled, non-delayed attention management machine. 谢谢观