Now there's a final concept that we need to talk about before I can go into my super epic personal technique that I use that's extremely, extremely effective. And that is the idea of a decisional delay. delays are time vampires, as in they suck all the time away from our day and we, I guess unlike a vampire really, we don't even know it. We don't even know it and actually the danger here is that we end up wasting time on things that were completely avoidable with better planning and if we were aware of it and it can actually amount to two or maybe sometimes even three hours a day, depending on what your day looks like. So if I said to you, there's a way for you to reclaim two hours, or even one extra hour a day, then that's like an extra hour of sleep, an extra hour of whatever it is. A lot of the time, you might think, "Oh, I could go over to my friend's house or do something, but it takes 20 minutes to get there, and it takes 20 minutes to come back." That's like almost an hour already. If I said you could free up an hour, it's like, wow, that's like, I could, that commute there and back is like completely accounted for. This is what I'm talking about here. I'm talking about the ability to really cut down on this thing called decisional delays. And decisional delays are the time it takes to figure out what to do next. And I've mentioned it here and there throughout the course before, but I wanna give it some proper attention now because decisional delays make an enormous part of hidden gaps of time that we don't realize are running away from us. Normally we're aware of time passing when there's an activity that we're doing. However, if we're not doing an activity and we're thinking about what to do next, we're normally not aware of how much time passes. So think about this, you are wanting to go for a run, you're thinking of going for a jog, and you're thinking, should I go for a jog today or should I not? Where should I go for a jog? What should I wear? How's the weather looking like? Should I do it, should I not? That kind of thought process, you can actually be umming and ahhing for let's say five or 10 minutes before you even get onto it. And this is where procrastination sets in. This is where you get more lazy. This is where you start thinking, ah, maybe I'll just do it tomorrow. So there's a lot, this is the evil zone. There's a lot of bad things that happen in this place. This is a dark alleyway that your parents told you not to enter into. This is the time management equivalent of this. When you're walking past the decisional delay in your time management life and journey, this is the part you want to sprint through because you're going to get mugged here by procrastination. So the way that we first prevent decisional delays and in a way become more decisive is first of all, by having better plans, good schedules, good task management, all of the stuff that we've covered already. So we know at a certain time we're meant to do something. However, even if we know that after we do something, we're meant to do the next thing, we may finish something early and we still have a bit of time left for the next thing. And we think, okay, well, what should I do now in the time to fill it? And that thinking process might actually end up procrastinating you so that you are late for your next thing. So you might finish 15 minutes early and then watch YouTube for an hour and now you're late for the next activity or you didn't even do it at all. Or maybe you finished 10 minutes late and you're thinking, "Do I still have enough time? I feel like I need a break." And then again, there are all these decisional delays. So the important part about removing decisional delays is actually being very aware of decisional delays. So very easily what you can do is at the end of every single day, because you already have made a schedule, right? You can reflect on your schedule and you can actually think, "Were there any decisional delays in between the activities? Was there any time at which I stopped the activity and I thought, "Hmm, what should I do next? Oh, should I do this? Should I do that?" And you're contemplating how you should do it, what you should do, whether you should do it or not, that type of process. Be aware of that. Try to track that at the end of every day. The very first time you do that, you might not spot anything. But by the fact that you're looking for it, the next day, you might realize that you're doing it. You'll be umming and ahhing and you'll think, "Oh, I'm entering into it, "I'm in a decisional delay right now." And then you can see how much time you actually spend doing that. Across a wide range of people, not even just students, but professionals as well, when I look at decisional delays, often people are spending anywhere between 30 minutes to two hours on decisional delays. Purely from my own experience, looking at a few hundred different cases, I find that decisional delays actually becomes an extremely important part of time management goes unaccounted for because we're not even aware of it. Five minutes to ten minutes spent for deciding what to do next between every single activity that we do, the time very quickly ends up stacking up to if there's an additional hour, that's an entire new activity that we could have put in purely because of decisional delays. So this is the other aspect, the hidden aspect, the time that we're not even aware of us wasting, that if we were to reclaim, would really free things up. So the first step is just try to remove it, if you can acknowledge it, and you recognize you're entering in decision or delay, simply just skip that and just go on to the next task. Just flow straight into it without any hesitation. But in order to do that, we need to be able to have that awareness. So a diary or a log, every day when you're reviewing your schedule, just look where were the decisional delays and again you might not find anything for the first couple days but eventually you'll start noticing it more and more and more and when you become aware of it then you can actually do something about it. And this ability to really think about when you are wasting time between activities is extremely important as a skill to develop in order to use the technique that I'm about to teach you which actually puts a lot of this all together. But first let's get rid of these decisional delays. Peace.