So let's have a look at how we can revise more effectively and these are some of the guidelines that we need to follow. Now there's going to be ideas here that I've already talked about before, but there's also going to be some new ideas and this is where it gets more advanced because finding techniques that actually incorporate all of these new ideas is relatively rare and a lot of the techniques are so advanced that most students are completely incapable of doing it. It will be like if I just gave someone the Bear Hunter system in its full entirety without any build up, without any warning, just boom, here you go, use it. You can expect and some of you may already have even experienced this if you learn to be a hunter system without by rushing it or going straight to the end, is that it's very difficult and it can be overwhelming. So these are techniques that are really effective but also require a high level of skill, which I believe by this point, in fact I'm relatively certain that if you're watching this video now you already have the skill level as long as you have actually been practicing. obviously that's on you. So the first revision principle that we're talking about is the idea of expanding gap space repetition. So a lot of big sounding words there but actually very simple and I've talked about this before, expanding gap referring to the fact that the periods of revision are getting longer and longer each time. So this duration of time versus the next time versus the next time, the gap between each revision session is getting longer and longer and longer. And you remember that hopefully you're already using the version of spaced repetition that allows you to have something one week and then one month later. Well, that's an example of expanding gap spaced repetition where you're doing it one week and one month. But knowing this principle means that you can be a little bit more in control. So for example, if you're having a really high volume of study on let's say the Monday, then you could, if you're worried that it's not going to last you till the end of the week or if by Friday you're going to have so much to revise that it's just too much for a single day, you can split that so you can have one in the middle, right? You can have a Wednesday revision and your expanding gap space repetition would say that well, if there's only been two days gap here, then there really should be a longer gap here. And in terms of how much that gap increases by, this algorithm and the formula here can become very complicated. It's relatively mathematical and there's studies that are done on this and I'm not sure if anything conclusive has been found. However, as a general rule of thumb, I generally expand this gap by around two to three times each and in the later repetitions, you can expand it by even more. So the next revision, if you've done it two days later, the next one would be something like four or maybe five days. Okay, four or maybe five days later. Which could be, you know, end of the week or something. It doesn't matter so much, especially in these early stages, you know, if you do this on day two, and if you do this on, let's say, day four, so there's only two days gap in between here, then it doesn't really matter so much in that early stages, the first week or first 10 days. After that, you can be a little bit more flexible with expanding it out. So, if there was a four-day wait here, then you might add on something like an 8 to 12 day wait here. And then the next one after that might be anywhere from 3 weeks, 21 to 30 days of a gap in between, something like that. So you can see it kind of generally follows the idea of 1 week-ish and then 1 month-ish. So as a rule of thumb, I think it's relatively safe to do that. But depending on your schedule, depending on how much you need to study, if you have a lot more time, then what you can actually do is you can start stacking these a little bit more, have a few more at the beginning, and then spread them out a little bit. And that also means that if you sort of screw up your timing on something, you have enough knowledge about this so that you can figure out when you need to schedule your next revision. This is one of those points where I'd say that it's good to know about, but as long as you get it generally okay, you're pretty much in the clear, even if you don't get it it doesn't really tend to matter. So as long as you're generally following the idea of expanding gaps based repetition, relatively speaking, you should be okay. And the most important part is within that first sort of 10 days, you want to make sure that you're getting at least one or two revisions within that time. The next revision principle is this concept which is actually called interleaving. Now this is actually a really powerful learning, more of a phenomenon that occurs and let me explain this because a lot of the early research was done in sports and and we found that that's the same for academic subjects and things as well. But if you play a sport you could you could use this for your sport and it'll definitely work. So what they found if you take an example for here this is a basketball court and this is the free throw line. If from inside this circle here, and that's where they're gonna do their free throw from. Then they may practice doing a throw at this spot, let's say, for example, they're gonna practice at this spot. So conventional old school wisdom would say in order to get better at throwing from this spot, what you need to do is throw from this spot as much as possible. And this is the idea of just having repetition. But actually what studies have shown is that repetition by itself is actually very ineffective. It's a highly inefficient way of learning. And I think you know that by now. So the more effective way of learning is actually to practice not just from this one position, but also practice from slightly in front, slightly behind, slightly to the side. So it's actually better to practice like this. And what it does is it creates sort of this zone around where you had intended to get the best result from. And what we found is that it allows our brain to calibrate that learning much more accurately. And our learning is actually better. Rather than just repeating it the same way, what we actually wanna do is we wanna repeat it with variations. And the variations increases our learning. So if we just repeat the same thing again and again, it's not very effective. But if we vary the way that we are learning it, then it becomes more effective. And that is what interleaving is. Interleaving is the act of practicing repeatedly but with variations. Now, in the example of basketball, it's very easy to see. If you look at something like tennis, it means practicing your serve from slightly in front of the line, slightly before the line, from slightly to your right, slightly to the left, on a windy day, on a colder day, on a warmer day, on a rainy day. Different type of ball, different type of racket. That's generally what it means. With a soccer pass, for example, It means passing at different speeds, different rates, different places on the field. So the idea is that you want to create some kind of variation. So how do we do that when it comes to actually academic topics? Well, the way that we vary academic topics is through the way that we are revising it or the way that we're studying it. And you'll know that by now, you should already be using things like grind maps. So we've got the idea of mind maps in here. We've got the idea of reading that we're already doing. We've got visualization. While you're aiming and shooting, you're looking at images and videos. When you are writing it down, you're doodling. So we're already using a lot of different forms here. And the idea is that when we're revising, we don't want to stop that. We want to keep it going. We want to make sure that we continue varying the ways that we're expressing the idea. So that's the key here, is that we want to express the idea in a variety of ways. So if you want to get good in an exam which tests your knowledge through purely reading and writing, purely trying to express your knowledge in reading and writing actually is not gonna help as much as trying to express your ideas in reading and writing, plus spoken, speaking it out loud, teaching it, drawing it. So you actually want to have all these different variations where you know the mark is here, however, you're deliberately practicing in this entire zone because that allows your brain the ideas a lot more easily, because you're able to see the same idea from so many different angles that you get a more robust picture of it. It's kind of like if you saw this cube here and you only looked at it from this side, then you might think that it's just a square, but then if they test you on this side, you would think, wow, I've never learned that, but actually it was just on the other side of that, and it's up to you to actually find those additional angles, and this type of variation is what can help. So interleaving is actually a really powerful phenomenon, There are certain study systems that can be designed around the idea of interleaving. So a really effective interleaving thing that you can do, which I've already actually mentioned in our Optimize for Focused Rest Timing, is that we can do mental mind mapping while we're going for a stroll carrying a notebook. So we're actually changing a lot of things here. This is not how we normally study at all. Unless you normally study by taking a stroll in the park with a notebook and mentally mind mapping all the time, this is a variation on the way that we learn. And so this is actually using a form of interleaving. And that's why that is an effective way to use a break if you had enough energy that is. So that's interleaving. So we've covered so far the idea of expanding gap space repetition, which is kind of on a macro weekly scale, and then interleaving, which is both on a macro weekly monthly scale, But also on a day-to-day basis, 10 minutes doing one thing, 20 minutes doing another thing, you want to have that variation. Obviously not extreme like varying it every single minute, but being mindful of not getting stuck in the same way of expressing something again and again, or revising something the same way again and again, like just reading it over and over. And the final thing is the idea that we want to do, you might be thinking what is this weird moss looking thing. If we are representing our knowledge in green here, if this is our knowledge, what we need to actually do with our revision is we need to find the gaps. Okay, so these are all gaps in our knowledge. So we need to seek out the gaps. And you may be thinking that this is pretty obvious, but actually what I mean is that we need to actively be gap seeking. It's not good enough to just be like, okay, I'm gonna revise everything, blah, blah, blah. Oh, look, there's a gap. Oh, there's a gap. Oh, there's a gap. We don't wanna stumble on gaps. You want to actively look for the gap. And this is a different type of mentality to have because it means that you're very aware of how much time is wasted by doing things like endless past papers, where you're doing a question where you already know you probably know the answer to it, or you're not doing it because you think there's a gap there. You're doing it because it's just there to be done, which is quite a passive way of doing revision, rather than actively looking for gaps, I think there is a gap somewhere in this kind of area, doing questions based on that area and realizing, oh look, there are gaps here and here. And when you take that topic, you realize that that gap is much wider as well. And this is where our prior experience with the Bear Hunter system becomes really useful because this particular point, the gap-seeking thing, is actually the part that saves us the most amount of time. You can really cut down on the amount of time need to spend on revision by actively gap seeking, starting from your weaknesses and moving out, rather than starting from left to right and just waiting for a gap to appear, which could take forever. If we start from the gaps and move out, we're actually, we're filling our knowledge gaps much faster. That should be relatively obvious. The thing is though, that the techniques that involve active gap seeking, from a cognitive point of view, are relatively advanced. Not too advanced for you, I'm talking about for normal people, they're going to be relatively advanced, people that don't know how to do inquiry-based learning. Here's the thing about inquiry-based learning. We've already learned the AIM step, right? And the AIM step is great when you're learning new information. But the thing is you can actually use the AIM step also for existing old information and your revision as well. So how do you do an AIM step for revising information. Well, it's actually exactly the same thing. It's exactly the same process. So when you normally do an AIM step, what you do is you take unknown information, you have all these resources, and then you would find all the keywords, and then you would create questions out of them, and then you'd go into shooting, and then as you shoot, you'd go back and forth between AIM, shoot, AIM, shoot, AIM, shoot, until you feel like you've got a relatively good understanding, represented maybe as a mind map, And then you take that into the skin stage, where you'd really clear that relationship up and turn it into a grind map. Or a variation, whatever is useful for you at that stage. So, this is the way that we do it for a new topic. So for an old topic, what we already know, it's actually exactly the same process. So what we're doing is we're taking not just random resources, we're taking resources that we've already looked at, that we're already familiar with, and include it in there, we're also taking our existing notes, our existing grind maps, our existing flashcards. We're taking that information, and from there, what we're gonna do is more of a hip shot. We're not gonna do the keywords. We're gonna go straight to asking the questions. 'Cause remember, the purpose of the AIM step is to create curiosity, right? That's the idea. That's the inquiry behind the inquiry-based learning. And so what we're doing is we're gonna take all these resources, and we simply do the AIM step again those same resources. And we ask ourselves questions, but now we don't have to ask questions that are like, "What is this? What is this? What is the meaning of this? Why is this important?" or all of those questions. What we're now doing is we're deliberately looking to ask questions that we don't know the answer for. Okay, we're deliberately just going to ask questions that we do not know the answer for. Which means that we're exploring the topic, we're going through the material, and we're thinking, "Okay, this idea, could that be connected to this idea? Could differentiation be connected to incomplete integration? Could the idea of finding a common ancestor be related to the idea of speciation? Could the idea of collision theory be related to the particular catalyst that's used. So these are things that we may have actually missed picking up in the skin step. Okay, so in a way, in a way, this new aim step that we're doing is almost, we're sort of trying to skin it again. We're trying to skin it again. And so what we're doing is we're looking for questions that we deliberately don't know the answer to and we end up with creating these questions that are deliberately targeting our weaknesses, that are deliberately targeting our weaknesses. So it's almost like having a past paper that was created purely for what we don't know. And now of those questions, we may realize that we're not gonna get examined on half of that stuff. You know, those questions are too advanced. But what it does tell you that even if you're not getting a question in the exam that's exactly the same as a question that you created, they may not be the exact same question. but it does tell you that that topic or that concept is something that you might be weaker in. And it says, "Hey, there may actually be a gap in that vicinity. You should go and explore that gap a little bit more." And that means you can find questions related to that gap. You can maybe even answer your questions that you created if you think that they're relevant enough. And by doing that, you have a general compass as to where your weaknesses are likely to be. And so you're not spending time going through just mindless questions. You can really focus in on the questions that you were the weakest on in the first place. Right, so if you're really, really confident with your knowledge, you might not be able to find many gaps. If you really recently only studied this, then you might be able to find more gaps that you might have missed. If you rushed any of the previous steps up here, you might find more gaps. If you didn't do the skin properly, you would find this here. If there was a certain detail that you skipped through, you might find it here because you might have a question, how does this and this thing relate? And you realize, oh, I don't know how it relates. And then you go back to the original material and you realize, oh, there's an entire paragraph here that explains that relationship that I forgot. And that's how you'd sort of pick this up. Now, the reason you're actually able to do this, and the reason that the aim step for new and old material is exactly the same, is actually because of the fact that the new and old is only relative to each other. So here's what I mean. Let's say that you're learning about photosynthesis. And for you, photosynthesis is a new topic. Let's say this is a new topic. Well, the thing is, it's not really a new topic because you already know about plants. You know what plants are, you know what leaves are. You know probably that plants require sunlight. So you actually do have some kind of background knowledge on this. It's just that the amount of background knowledge you have there's not a lot. So it seems really new. So you might have, let's say, three points worth of background knowledge before you start learning it. And after you learn about photosynthesis, now you've got 10 points of background knowledge. Well, if you're revising photosynthesis, it simply means that now you have 10 points of background knowledge. And you wanna make that knowledge level 12 points to fill in the gaps. But here's the thing, someone who's done their PhD in photosynthesis, they've probably got 500 points. So from their point of view, is there any difference between you before you learned it versus you after you learned it, relative to what they know? So the idea is that every topic that we're learning is huge, it's enormous. Every little fact that you learned, probably someone dedicated their entire life to it. The single constant that you memorize in chemistry, That was the life work of someone. So there is an enormous depth of knowledge that can be had. And when you're learning something, whether it's for the first time or when you're revising it, compared to what can be known, it's all relatively new anyway. The only difference is that you just have a different level of background knowledge on it. Here you had common sense background knowledge or general knowledge level of background knowledge. Whereas here, now you've got a little bit more. But when you're looking at it to learn it, it's actually the same process. It's actually the same process, which is why we can use the exact same technique, even though we've already sort of learned it, because of the fact that we already know that here, there are things that we don't know. After we've learned it, we already know. Like we still are sure that there's things that we don't know. So in both situations, we know that there's stuff we don't know already. And therefore the same technique is actually relevant and applicable. And we're gonna look at other gap-seeking techniques. The one that I mentioned here was just to give you an idea behind how you can use an existing technique you already know and how we can sort of just shift our perspective and we can use the AIM step for the existing stuff that we know. And you can actually do effective revision that way without even using any past papers. So that's just one example of how we do this gap-seeking. I'm gonna give you a different form of gap seeking, another type of inquiry-based learning technique that's specifically useful for revision. Well, technically speaking, actually, you can do this for new information as well, but you need to be really advanced with your technique to be able to do this for a new topic. So typically, this is a revision technique that I'm gonna teach you that encompasses all of this. It's got interleaving, and it has gap seeking, and because of the way that you're timing it, they would have expanding gap spaced repetition as well. So anyway, these are the three elements that create effective revision. We want expanding gap spaced repetition. We want to have interleaving, i.e. variations every time we're covering it. And when we do cover it, we want to make sure we're trying to deliberately look for where our gaps might be and start from there going out. So techniques that find our gaps faster are more efficient and save us time. that we're not in control of finding our gaps, it's a passive process like just doing past papers. These are passive techniques and therefore they're slower. Not only are they slower, they also tend to be less effective as well. İzlediğiniz için teşekkür ederim. Bir sonraki videoda görüşürüz.