And we've got it. We've got our basic structure of an entire comprehensive BHS system. The only part we're missing now is a little bit more to add on in terms of the revision strategy which we're going to go over in the next camp. However, what you've got now is the fundamentals of all your note-taking. So let's do a quick bit of a recap to see what we've got to work with. Going with the fundamentals again, we know that we need to learn in the right way, inquiry-based learning, creating curiosity, receiving the answer for it, order control to learn in the order that makes sense for us, and notes that represent that efficiently. We know that relationships are the most important thing, therefore, we're going to prioritize relationships in our notes, and the best way to do that is using mind maps. We covered the aim, shoot, skin stages, which allow us to create that curiosity, learn from our notes actively, process it in our minds, represent it in a mind map that follows the best practice guidelines for effective note-taking, as well as then looking to find even more patterns, more chunking and organization of the notes using our skin step. So now we've got a great conceptual understanding of layers 1, 2, and 3. And that takes us to a higher level of mastery where we're able to not only compare, analyze, and apply the ideas, but we can even evaluate the ideas by weighing and critiquing and ranking them against each other and creating priorities. So our relational understanding is very strong at this point and our notes clearly show it and saves time because we're not just rewriting and relearning. So our retention is very high. Now, in order to fill in the gaps of anything that we we might have missed, we're gonna make sure that we cover all the layer three and four stuff in our flashcards as well, following the best practice guidelines for good digital flashcards. And we can also reduce the number of flashcards even more by putting anything we don't need in our flashcards onto our method of loci map instead, which we can just revise while we revise the mind maps. And because the method of loci is such a high level, high efficiency technique already in terms of having a very high retention compared to the amount of time spent, it means that we don't need to revise it as much as we would our flashcards. In fact, even if we were to just look at that mind map the next day to refresh and then the week after and then the month later, we would just retain that information very safely. So it's not something that we need to constantly be doing again and again like we would our flashcards. Or if you want it to be safe anyway, you can take a screenshot or a photo of your Method of Lokai drawing, and you could chuck that onto your flashcards as well, if you wanted to. So between our Method of Lokai and our flashcards, that covers everything that we'd have to learn and memorize. And I really mean everything. I have never encountered anything that I couldn't memorize using that. In fact, you can use Method of Lokai to learn numbers and memorize numbers as well. You just need to have a number that represents one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and then a combination of them. So for example, for me, number one, I consider as an ace and I think of an ace pilot. So I think of a jet plane whenever I think of the number one. If the number is, let's say number two, I think of two as snake eyes. So I always imagine these beady, glistening eyes with laser vision. So if I had the number 12, I would imagine a plane with eyes that are shooting out lasers. That's kind of how it works. So I practiced with a deck of cards when I was first practicing this technique. So you might want to go and assign numbers for each of your things so you can keep using those numbers anytime you need to memorize numbers. It can be quite handy and helpful to have that pre-programmed. So because you've got method of loci, you don't need as many flashcards. And because you're learning so much conceptually and logically, you don't have much to rote learn to begin with. But anything you do need to rote learn, you've got a great system for doing so. So we've covered all four layers of learning with a combination of our mind maps, grind maps and inquiry-based learning, as well as flashcards and method of low type. Pair that with a fantastic high efficiency revision strategy that allows us to find our gaps and learn on top of that extremely quickly and aggressively and then we have something that really fills in all the gaps that we can be completely confident in. Now before we even do the revision strategy you can also have a sweep through the information at the time when you make your flashcards or your method of loci. The thing is you need to pick up all those arbitrary details anyway, the layer 4. So what you're going to need to do is have a way of either if you collected those details while you were studying, go through your document and pick them out, or if you didn't, you can just go through all of your resources, flick through your course guides, or flick through your textbooks, or flick through your class notes, or whatever it is, and actually just have a look to see, is there anything that I missed that I don't already understand or already have memorized? And if there's something, you can decide what you want to do with it. Do you want to try to reconnect and integrate it into your mind map or do you think that it's something that you need to rote learn in which you can decide whether you should do it through the method of loci or whether you should do it through your flashcards. Now as a minor point the method of loci is quite versatile. You don't need an enormous elaborate thing for it. Even if you were just trying to memorize three things you can actually use the method of loci and increase the amount of nonverbal visual expression in in your mind maps and grind maps. So what you do is if I need to memorise something just very small, then I would just create a single character or an element or some kind of imagery that represents that. Like a cat wearing a sombrero riding a lizard or something. Something ridiculous like that, which might represent for me some kind of other idea. And I'd draw that little character inside my mind map and I wouldn't have to actually write down the list there. So when it looks like it's getting a bit too wordy on your mind map, you can think, are there any lists here that I can just memorize with a method of loci? And if you can, chuck a mini method of loci right there and you can swap the words out. So that's another way of reducing the words and making it even more visual. And even if you do have the words next to it as a reference, it looks a lot cleaner because instead of having three different points for three different items, you've got one point to a single image with a couple notes on the side, just for your reference if you need it. So it still looks cleaner. So the combination of all of this sort of stuff is how you would use this entire BHS system to cover most of your learning. And we've already covered how we apply this with various different subjects and specific topics and how you can vary it while staying true to the basic principle of using your brain the way that it's meant to be used. But by this point, you should have a really strong grasp on all the techniques. And we wanna make sure that we're consistently practicing it so we can keep using this full arsenal very, very smoothly and very slickly. Again, this full arsenal is what I teach the students that I've privately coached as what I use myself when I need to get top results. So as another quick recap, concepts and logic through mind maps, grime maps and inquiry-based learning, rote learning and all the rest so you don't have to worry with flashcards and modified method of loci and to pick up on any gaps, consolidate and really bring that knowledge all together, we've got a very effective revision strategy and revision technique that we're gonna chuck on there that just completes the entire image and we'll cover that in the next camp.