- So the revision technique that I'm going to teach you is actually superior to both recognition and recall. And in order to make sense of this, let's just do a quick recap on memory. So you remember ages ago I told you about how memory and remembering things is not like there's a memory box in your brain. And then every time you remember something, you're drawing from this box and pulling out the memory. It doesn't work that way. This is not how memory works. The way that memory works is that you have nodes of information that have certain relationships with each other. And these relationships that are formed between the ideas, this is actually what gives the knowledge its structure. You remember that? Hopefully you remember that. And it's when the knowledge has this type of structure that when we think about the node, we think, oh, this thing. Oh yeah, that's related to this and this. Oh, this one, that's related to this one. Oh, and I remember that, that was related to this and then that, oh, which means that it must be like that. And that is how the memory is formed. It's reconstructed every single time, okay? It's reconstructed every time we think about it. So what recognition is doing is we're saying, we look at the memory, we literally look at it and we think, is this the memory? And we say, yes, it is the memory. Is this the memory? Yes, it is a memory. So is this a star? Yes, it's a star. Is this a square? Yes, it's a square. And so that's what recognition is doing. It doesn't involve any reconstructive process at all. So the process of recognition is completely, has nothing to do with our ability to actually create that memory ourselves. So it's useless for us, because we're never gonna get assessed on our ability to just recognize. You're never gonna get an exam question where it tells you a fact that you learned, and it says, is this the fact you learned? and you're like, this is the fact I learned. That's not gonna be an exam question, right? So in fact, that's just not gonna be a life scenario that occurs. So the next thing really is recall. And again, when we talk about recall, we are talking about here active or true or pure recall, not queued recall, okay, which I've talked about before. So when we're doing active recall, we're saying, okay, look, I'm gonna give you this piece of information and I'm gonna give you this piece of information. I want you to now write an essay, or I want you to now analyze, or I want you to explain the difference between whatever, you know, the other points. So it's requiring you, they give you nodes of information, and they say, now I want you to recall the remaining information, and give me the memory that you have stored away, and so you're going like this. Right, that's recall. And so obviously that's a lot more realistic. And therefore, this is definitely a lot better compared to recognition, you know, three ticks better. So what's even better than that? Well, the thing is, if all memory is reconstructed anyway, why don't we just purely test our reconstruction? And so that's the next step, is actually reconstruction. So reconstruction is superior to recognition and recall. Reconstruction means that we're taking the information that we have, the same nodes of knowledge that we're given, and instead of building the same memory that we already know can be built. What we're gonna do is we're actually gonna try to build memory or try to build knowledge that we potentially haven't built before. And we're gonna see if that makes sense. We're gonna try to build new knowledge and make new connections that we previously weren't able to make before. That's reconstruction. And so in order to be able to reconstruct something, Bu konuyu bilmen için her bir noktayı çok çok iyi bilmen gerekiyor. Bu bağlantıda, bu anlamına gelmez. Bu imkansız. Bu bağlantıda, bu imkansız. Bu bağlantıda, bu imkansız. Ama bu bağlantıda, bu imkansız. Bu, birç this. Curveball questions are giving you pieces of information like this and it's saying I want you to make a shape out of that and you're thinking I never learned that shape. There's not a shape that I thought could be made before. But if you practice with reconstruction you'd say oh it is possible to use the knowledge that way. And again if you think back to a hobby or something that you know really well you can do that with the knowledge. If I take two of your favorite characters from a movie or a book or something and I say what would happen if this character and this character met, then you'll be able to think about what would happen. So you can take that information and you can create relationships and you can work with that information very freely. So if you think about a hobby, hopefully you can feel how free it is that you can just think about things and create new information from that. And the thing with that is that is actually going back to Bloom's Taxonomy here, right? So if you think about recognize, recognize doesn't even test on Bloom's Taxonomy. Recognize doesn't even see if you can memorize it. Recognize is down here. That's why I say that it's useless. This is where recognize is. There's no level of knowledge mastery here. Even like a turtle could recognize. Recall is testing your ability around sort of this spectrum, depending on what type of thing you're trying to recall. If you're recalling basic facts, it's testing you down here. If you're recalling an explanation, it's testing you over here. If you're recalling information and trying to use that to solve problems, it's testing you over here. Reconstruction is testing you almost exclusively up here. This is where reconstruction tests you. And obviously it's impossible to do any of this stuff up here if you don't have a mastery already of this stuff. But remember, our brain works in a way that it likes being in this higher gear as early as possible. We learned that with the bear hunter system. We learned that with the cave theory. We learned that if you're staying below this line, our brain is not working effectively. We need to activate problem solving, the checklist of problem solving and patterns, which is application and above. Only up here is our brain in an efficient state of learning. Right, so we've already covered that, right? We're jumping straight to here in the aim step. And we're letting all of this stuff fill in automatically 'cause our brain can do that. And we wanna do that with our revision too. We don't want to be down here. We want to simply be up here. So doing past papers is a good thing in the way that allows you to test your recall and application here. So that's actually a good thing about past papers, which is why past papers, people find that they're very effective if they don't have anything else good going for them. However, we know, hopefully we know, that there are more effective ways of doing this so that we're not just tediously going through past papers. (keyboard clicking) If I try to apply and recall literally everything, we can do a bit more of that gap seeking. And the way that we're doing the gap seeking is by using reconstructive techniques. Because we realize that maybe we can recall something, but we're not able to use that information differently. Maybe we can recall this relationship as existing. But then if I say, use this point to create a relationship with these two, and you think, oh, I actually can't do that, then that means that you don't know this as well as you thought you did. And you never really end up in a situation where you test that until you do reconstruction-based revision. You never test your ability to create new types of relationships and create new ways of understanding the same topic, the same concept, the same fact, applying the fact in a different way. You don't normally test this part of your brain. And that's why reconstruction is so valuable, is because it allows you to really analyze and evaluate the ideas against each other extremely in depth, really evaluating how important one idea is compared to another idea, whether one fact is applicable to another fact, whether you can use an equation in one situation, even though it wasn't taught for you to use it in that situation, because you feel like there's so many similarities with another equation and you feel like they might be actually interchangeable. And then on top of that, we're then creating new information, we're creating new theories, we're creating new hypotheses. There are theories, we are hypothesizing, we're creating conjecture, and that is a very high level of mastery. And so if you're able to do that with your knowledge, you have nothing to fear when it comes to exams and things like that, which is why people that know their subjects really, really well, they could not have studied anything for years. And then if they sit the exam for it, they will still get 100% because it's just, it's so easy for them to work with that knowledge. So you can see how we've got these different elements, recognition and recall, but then the next evolution of that is reconstruction. And I think you can tell already, just based on me explaining this abstractly, without even giving any real examples, this is a process that is not easy, which is why most students struggle to do that. but you are a student that has had incubation. You're a student who has learned how to use your brain the right way. You're used to inquiry-based learning. You're used to order control. You're used to taking control of when you learn information and what you do with it. You're used to processing information. So you're leagues beyond already, which is why I think you're ready to learn about reconstruction-based revision and just shave time off your revision by the truckloads. (뭔가 (Kedi miyavlamak) (baby babbling) Uncle? (baby babbling) (door creaking) (glass shattering)