(Sessizlik) over a world problems. Revision is necessary because of the fact that we know that our learning process is never gonna be perfect the first time round. Even if you were to get the aim shoot, skin step really, really well, and you did your flash cards and use your method of low-kai and all of that sort of stuff and you put it into a really nice package, there's always gonna be something that's missed, that's inevitable. So it's necessary for us to combat that and add another layer on that Swiss cheese model so that it picks up any of those issues. And the knowledge of having a really effective, very robust revision strategy gives a lot of peace of mind because it means that at every stage earlier on, we're not fussing and worrying about missing a few details here and there, because we know that in our revision, we're gonna pick those things up. Now, the way that most students revise is really just by doing a ton of practice questions or past papers. Practice questions and past papers do have their use, but the use is relatively limited and that you have to be pretty lucky in order to get the right past paper and the right past paper question that tests you on the thing that you were weak on or didn't know. You also have to have access to those past papers and questions, which as you go on through your academic career, especially in university, that's not as available. Now you might be thinking, well, if I'm in high school now, why does it matter? Well, that's because if you don't have the crutch of past papers moving forward, then what are you gonna use? And this is something that I've covered before. So it's important for us to be able to create a revision system and use a strategy that's independent, that relies on only our own skill and ability, and that's what we're gonna be covering today. And the topic which we're looking at, which is how to do revision the right way. But before we do revision the right way, let's figure out what the wrong way is. So there's a number of ways that people will revise the wrong way. And this is a list of the things that you should not do. And you may feel personally attacked these points, don't constantly repeat the same way. So this is saying don't just take information and then just expect that by doing it again and again and again, you're gonna be able to smash it into your brain somehow. So if this represents the first time that we learnt it and our vision represents this arrow, what a lot of people will do is they will just learn it basically the same way they learnt it the first time but they'll do it again and again and again. And so the question here is, if you're doing it exact same way every single time. How are you actually going to find something new or different? And this is why a lot of the time when people revise, when they already have a relatively high level of knowledge, and they're already, to a reasonable degree, relatively confident, then what actually happens is that the amount of yield or impact that the revision offers, it becomes stagnant. It starts plateauing. So you do revision after revision after revision, and eventually when you're revising, you're thinking, "I'm not actually learning anything new. I'm kind of just covering the same stuff." And it's starting to get boring, and it can also be a little bit scary because you're like, "I'm not really 100% sure if I'm covering everything that I need to be covering." And often the answer is actually you're not. And so this is how you can actually end up having a blind spot. And when I say blind spot, I'm really talking about an area of the subject that you just consistently and systematically have been missing. It could be an angle, it could be an approach, it could be a specific way of applying your knowledge that you never thought of before. And this is the type of stuff that could come up in your exam or your assessment. And these things are often called curveballs. But the inability to deal with curveballs, I would say is a failure of the revision strategy because correct revision should mean that you're relatively immune to any type of curveball questions. So it doesn't even become curveballs. And related to that is the second issue which is revising mindlessly. So obviously mindlessly, hopefully by now we've got an understanding of the difference between passive and active learning. Revising mindlessly really means just doing passive revision. Passive revision might be doing things like using recognition instead of recall, or it could be a little bit more subtle, like you're doing recall but you're just recalling on the same thing again and again and again. And the idea is we're not really being attentive to how we're revising and whether it produces the highest level of learning possible. And that's the thing that we need to focus on is revising in a way that provides the highest level of learning for the amount of time that we're actually spending on it. And again, do not use past papers as a crutch because it's not gonna last you very long. You're not gonna be able to do this forever. It doesn't develop you the skill. So there's a lot of compromises here. You know, you're not developing the skill. you become dependent on them, it's not sustainable. You know, you can't do this in later years and at that time you're not gonna have the skill to be able to do that. It also actually wastes a lot more time because if you do a past paper and that past paper asked you, let's just say, there's three questions and you already knew the answer to question number one and number three and question number two was like, oh, that's good for me to revise. So in that case, only a third of your time was actually spent effectively because of the fact that you only really needed to revise that second point. So that means that as you revise longer and longer, if you do this process again and again, then by the third past paper that you're doing and there's 10 questions, maybe only two of those questions are actually providing any meaning. And so the efficiency of your revision is actually going down over time, which is obviously not something that we want. We want something that relatively will remain high efficiency, even though we do it again and again, and it's consistently helping us find gaps and weaknesses and allowing us to apply the knowledge in new ways and preparing us for these types of curveball questions that we might otherwise miss. So we're gonna go into revision guidelines and how you can revise a little bit better, as well as a really powerful technique that most students, dare I say, almost all students at a high school level are unable to do, unless they have a relatively high level already of some of the components of the Bear Hunter system. So let's have a look at what we should do to revise the right way. 이곳 [끝