(Sessizlik) we actually get the time to do them. So really, time management is looking at things like scheduling, whereas task management is looking at things like to-do lists, or project lists, or homework lists, or things that you need to study, or maybe like different priorities that you have in your life, like family or friends, or things like that. You know, just things that you're trying to balance, that's task management. When you do those things, that's time management. So obviously you need both. If you've got too many tasks to do, It doesn't really matter how good your time management is, you're just not gonna have enough time to do it. But it doesn't matter how well you prioritize, if you don't have good time management, you're also not gonna be able to make the time or allocate the time to do it. And we are prioritizing when it comes to both. We're prioritizing our tasks, and this is like how important is it to do, whereas this is prioritizing our time and when is it the most important. So like during a certain time slot, so for example, 8 a.m. to 9 a.m., best use of this time. We're prioritizing how we use each block of time, whereas here we're prioritizing what to actually do. So it's a little bit different. We've already talked about scheduling. I'm gonna talk about it a little bit more later on. But I wanna just take a little brief foray out into task management a little bit more and go through a very effective, very simple system for task management. This is only really necessary if you've got a lot of things on your plate. If you don't have a lot of things on your plate, there's not too many things to balance, then you might be able to do all your task management purely out of your calendar, or the built-in task list in your calendar or something like that. But if you've got a lot of things on your plate, like when I was a student, I was balancing a lot of things, especially if you've got heaps of extracurriculars, then this might be relevant for you. So one of the things that you're gonna need is you're actually gonna need an app. It's extremely difficult to do this without an app. There are different types of apps that you can use out there. They're all relatively similar. They all have their pros and cons, and I'll leave various app suggestions and a breakdown of each in this lesson as well, so you can have a look through that. But let's just say that you have a task management app, some kind of to-do list app. What we're gonna use here is elements of a very famous task management system, which is called the GTD system, which you may have heard of before, and I may have even talked about this before, which is the Getting Things Done system. And some of the elements of the GTD system that you can use is the fact that they break it up into a collection, a prioritization, this is not exactly the names that they call it, but this is the way that I think is easier for students to actually use, a collection step, a prioritization step, and a do it or allocation step. And so it's very simple actually. The collection step simply means that as you're going throughout the day, if you're not already, use the app to just collect all the tasks that you need to do. At the end of every day, then or maybe even twice a day if you accumulate tasks very quickly, what you're gonna do after the collection stage is then prioritize. And we simply prioritize using the same type of prioritization method that we would have used before. So you can use something like the priority zero plus one combined with the Eisenhower matrix to figure out what are the things that we need to do, what are the things that we're able to bin and get rid of. The same way of prioritization that you should probably already be familiar with. And then the other thing, which I've already mentioned, the two minute rule here, which is that if it takes you two minutes or less to do it, just do it, otherwise you allocate it. And here is where it gets a little bit more specific than what you might already be used to. Because the way that you can allocate it is actually different depending on the type of task. We already know that certain types of tasks are higher priority based on our priority zero plus one system, we already have experience on that. But we can actually prioritize it even more to make it easier for ourselves when it comes to putting it into our schedule. Let's say for example, we have a number of different tasks that we've prioritized, and there's various things that are all very important for us to get done. How do we then allocate and decide which task to do when? Well, there are a few things that we can do, and this is me combining a few other frameworks here. There's one thing called eat the frog, okay? Eat the frog. And eat the frog means that you should do the thing that you don't want to do at the very beginning. So generally speaking, people don't wanna eat a frog. Well, I mean, I guess it really depends, but assuming that you don't wanna eat the frog, that's the thing that you would do first. And the reason is because a lot of the time, the thing that takes the most time, the most effort, and actually would make the most impact or difference ends up being something that is the most complicated, that requires the most investment. And actually that is kind of one of the things the most important. So you can have two different tasks, each of which are extremely high priority, both of which might be relatively urgent. One of those tasks you might be internally dreading a little bit more and that's the frog. So what do you do first? You do the frog first, okay? You eat the frog first. So this is something that I use on a daily basis and I lament sometimes for having so many frogs, but it really does work and once you get the frog out of the way, even mentally speaking actually clears things up a lot for you and makes your scheduling life a lot easier because your first priority becomes just doing the frog and afterwards you just feel that it's much more convenient to do the remaining tasks because you've got the biggest mental burden out of the way. And the other important reason to do this first and eat the frog is because these frogs can often sit on your to-do list for way too long. And because of the fact that it's something that usually requires more time and effort investment, when you leave it for too long, we run into the risk of actually leaving it so long that we don't have enough time to do it and the urgency is through the roof and then that increases obviously the amount of stress that we are facing to an unhealthy level. So that's one way that we allocate. We identify the frogs, even if they're within the same priority quadrant, we say one thing is a frog, we prioritize that first. The other way of prioritizing, obviously we've got the two minute rule, things that can be done straight away. And then there's a third way of doing it, which is we're looking at how much it contributes to a wider project or a wider picture. So I don't know if there's a technique or there's an existing system or framework about this. There probably is, but I call it bottlenecking. And what you do with bottlenecking is you're not deliberately creating bottlenecks for yourself in terms of time, but you're looking for bottlenecks. And the way that this works is that you might have a certain task, which in itself is not super important. However, later down the line, maybe next week, if you haven't done this task already, then it might mean that a later step of that process will end up being delayed until you're able to finish this. And the overall purpose of doing this entire thing might actually be relatively important, even though this specific task might not actually be important. And this is very subtle. And again, this is why this is most useful for people that have a lot of things going on in their life. If there is something that at the time is important but not urgent, when we evaluate that, we also want to evaluate it in terms of, will this become a bottleneck in terms of our productivity, aka, is this gonna really take up a lot of time? And the most common thing here is anything that involves other people. So let's say that you're organizing an event or a party or something, or you're going ice skating with your friends or something like that, okay, whatever it is. The act of actually going ice skating or going and organizing that thing with your friends, well, let's just say that it's, let's say it's something more critical, like you've got some kind of very important gathering, okay, whatever it is, something that's very important, very important gathering that you're trying to organize. That in itself might be a high priority task, okay? However, the act of actually emailing people or messaging them to say, "Hey, can you make it at this time?" That at the time might not be particularly urgent and also might not be that important compared to your other priorities. However, if you don't do that now, the thing is that you are no longer in control of them replying to you. So if you do that when it becomes urgent, then you don't actually have enough time left for them to then later on reply, and then it's too late. And doing this was important, which means that even though that the act of asking them was not in itself extremely important and urgent, it is something that we wanna increase our priority over, increase the urgency of, and in general, I like to get these things done out of the way as early as possible because of the fact that you don't want bottlenecks to suddenly spring up later on when you might actually have three more tasks that have since been added to your list that are even more high priority and more urgency. And now you have this one that's recently just become urgent 'cause you didn't do it earlier. And this is something that I learned while working as a doctor. There are certain things that we need to do for our patients, like we need to book them for like a CT scan. But the thing is, even though they might not need the CT scan until later in the afternoon, if we don't send the request in in the morning, there's no time for the person to review the request and approve it and for the scan to get done. So we actually prioritize these higher, even though the act of sending the request isn't in itself extremely important because of the fact that it involves factors outside of your control that might become a bottleneck. That's a very common situation where this occurs, but it's a general principle. You can find it in different types of situations, but it's a couple of things to look out for. Look for the frogs, do those first, evaluate your tasks and think, is this gonna be a bottleneck for me? Once I do this task, am I gonna have to wait for someone else or something else or something like that? If that's the case, just get it over and done with. And obviously these two minute ones, do it straight away as soon as you do it. So by doing this, you can actually really effectively manage the tasks that you're doing, especially this eat the frog step, that transitions really well into scheduling. It fits really easily into something like the Priority 0+1 system because you know really what that number one priority is. And overall, it means that you're able to handle your potentially overwhelming list of tasks a little bit more smoothly. So that's a little bit of information on task management. And I completely understand that this might be way over the top for a lot of students. But even if there's one or two little things that you can pick from this and use, it's probably going to be good for you. It's a good habit to start building and maybe one day when you're extremely, extremely busy because you've got a million things going on or maybe that's already you right now, you're going to find this really helpful.