(Video boyun Okay, so this is the concept and there are three types of this concept the first and the second type is blah, blah, blah. So that's how we would normally teach. So this method of teaching is something that I just call it linear. It is linear teaching. So the idea is that we start from the beginning, we end at the end, and we simply go from this is the concept, this is the fact. And often, when we're explaining that we say, here is the word, and then this is the definition. Maybe here are some examples or applications of it. Okay, and we just do this again and again and again for the entire topic. It's very linear. It's like we are reading it from a textbook. But why would we teach it this way when we don't know it in our heads like a textbook? We don't know it in our heads linearly, right? We didn't study it that way if we used a Beata system. So why are we teaching it that way? This is again, one of those old habits that dies very hard. The whole part whole method of teaching says we shouldn't actually teach it this way to begin with. What we should teach is number one, the whole, the big picture. Once we explain the big picture, then we dive into all of its component parts. And every time we teach the part, we go back to the whole. We go back to the whole, we go back to the whole. So we're constantly going between the whole, the big picture and the part, the details or the concept. And so instead of looking like this diagram above here, what it ends up looking like is it looks more like this. If this is the knowledge and we say, okay, this is broken up into concept number one, concept number two, and then concept number three, what we say is we're gonna learn a topic about concept number one, number two, and number three. In concept number one, there are sub-concepts A and B. Whereas in topic number two, there's subconcepts C and D, and in concept number three, there's subconcepts E and F. We'll now look at concept A. So A is relevant because it allows concept one and concept two to relate together. And A is composed of three different parts. Blah blah blah. So, here we're just going into the detail. This part can be still relatively linear. But after we have explained that, we're going to go back to the whole. So we say, we've just talked about A. And A was relevant, remember, because of this relationship. We're now going to talk about the second part. So there was A and now there's B. So let's talk about B. What B is, is blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then you'd say, okay, so we've just talked about B. So that was concept number one, composed of A and B. And now remember concept number one is relevant because of the relationship between concept number one, two and three. And now we're going to talk about concept number two. The first concept here is C, which allows A and B to do whatever. So do you see every time I introduce anything new, I'm always going back to the whole. So I'm always making sure that I'm connecting it to the big picture. At every point, I'm connecting it back to the big picture. So I'm thinking, is what I'm saying, is it relevant? That's the question I'm always asking myself in my head. Is what I'm saying, is what I'm teaching right now, is that relevant to the big picture? Is it clear? If someone were listening to me, would it be very clear how it's relevant to the big picture? And at any time I feel like this is irrelevant to the big picture, I'm going to go back out. So this is what this diagram is. It's you start from the hole, you go to the pot, you go back to the hole, and to the and back to the whole, and back to the part, and back to the whole. You're constantly going back and forth between whole, and part, and sub part, and then the part, and the whole, and the part, and the sub part, and the part, and maybe this part, and then maybe revisiting this sub part, again. And maybe going back to the whole. So you're going back and forth, and back and forth, and back and forth. And it's just constantly back and forth. But all of that chaotic movement back and forth is in order for you to be able to make sure it's constantly relevant to the big picture. So let's take an example of me describing a pencil, describing a pencil. So if I described a pencil like I would linearly, then I would say, I'm gonna teach you about a pencil. A pencil is a writing utensil, and it is anywhere between five to 10 centimeters long and one centimeter in diameter, typically made of wood with a hexagonal shape with graphite, which is a type of carbon molecules, molecular structure, in the middle as a core, which is sharpened at the point in a pyramidal cone shape, which we sharpen with a pencil. So you can see it's very, it's just very, number one, boring, okay, because I'm talking about a pencil, but it's very hard to keep track of where I'm going with this. It's like, what is the point of all of that? So if we use an example, like talking about a very simple thing, like you probably already know about, like photosynthesis or like plant growth. So if there's a tree here, and then we say that there are leaves on this tree, and I'm teaching about photosynthesis, then the way that we normally would teach it is we'd say, we're gonna learn about photosynthesis. Photosynthesis is the process and chemical reaction that is involved with plant respiration, whereby glucose is produced through carbon dioxide using sunlight as a catalyst. The photosynthesis reaction occurs inside the chlorophyll, which is present inside the leaves, and the glucose is then transported throughout the plant in order for it to gain its nutrients in exchange up and down the trunk with water derived from the roots. Okay, it's extremely, if you are learning photosynthesis for the first time, imagine you're learning photosynthesis for the first time and that's the explanation you heard. you would be thinking, what in the heck is he talking about? Now, if I explain it through the whole pot hole, pay attention. So we're all surrounded by plants. For example, a tree, a tree is a type of plant. And one of the things that you'll notice about plants is they all have these green things. You know, sometimes they have big leaves, sometimes they have small leaves, but plants are generally green. But have you ever thought about why they are so green? And what's the purpose of plants having all of these leaves? In fact, plants, how do they stay alive? What do they eat? Where do they get the energy from? They don't have a mouth, they don't have a digestive system. So what is the way that a plant stays alive and produces energy? Well, it actually has something to do with the leaves. So there are a few processes involved here. The first is in that there is something that happens with the leaf. The second is that there's something that happens with the roots. And the third is that there's something that happens with sunlight. And all three of those combined together to allow the plant to live. So the first thing I talked about is the leaf. Inside a leaf, there is actually a pigment, which is green, and that's why leaves are green. And this pigment is actually involved and the chemical reaction that produces the energy. So remember at the very beginning, I talked about, so I'm going into the whole, I'll kind of illustrate. Remember at the beginning, I talked about how the, you know, plants all have leaves and how do they stay alive? Well, this pigment is the thing that brings everything together. And this pigment, which is green, is called chlorophyll. And inside chlorophyll, a chemical reaction takes place. And it is this chemical reaction using chlorophyll in the leaves and sunlight that allows a plant to create energy. What happens with this chemical reaction is blah, blah, blah. And therefore at the end of the day, this is occurring. And remember, this is what allows a plant to stay alive. So what about the trunk? What's the point of the trunk? And what's the point of the roots? Well, how that works is blah, blah, blah. So what I'm doing here is I'm constantly making sure every individual thing is relevant to the big picture. So as a result, you end up going, okay, you end up teaching very slowly and very methodically. And it takes a lot of effort to do this, just in general. However, just because you're teaching slowly doesn't mean you're revising slowly. Because inside your mind, what's happening is that you're taking all the knowledge that you have about this topic. And you're thinking, what's the most effective possible way? So you're saying, this is what your brain is doing. You're saying, I'm gonna teach you about this. And inside this, there is this and this and this and this. And I'm gonna start with this thing, which is relevant because it relates to this and this and that. And then inside here is this part and then this part. So in your brain, you are navigating through these relationships constantly, extremely quickly. So you can give it a go with anything really, any topic that you know. It might be the most recent topic that you've studied. Just try to explain it where after every sentence almost, you're trying to relate it to the big picture. You will find that you are very, very busy in your mind, constantly looking at how things might relate together. And that is very effective revision because you're going through these relationships from so many different angles and so many different ways. Not only that, you're doing it while speaking, while you are teaching, and therefore you're actually creating a new way of explaining this for the first time. You're creating a new way of explaining for the first time. You're constantly testing your relationships. You're getting into leaving in there. And so even though you might be speaking and teaching slowly and going through the topic very, very slowly, you are examining the entire topic constantly your mind, you are actually studying everything all the time. Okay? So do you see, because you're constantly going to the big picture, you're always thinking, how is any individual thing related to every other aspect around it? At every point, you go from this point to this point, and you're thinking, how is that related to this, and then this, and then that, and then this, and is that related to this thing here, and how is that related to this thing, and is that related to here? Do they share a common thing here? how's that related to that? And you go from this one to this one, and you think, oh, how was that related to this one? How about that relationship with this one, and then this one, and then this one? So you're constantly trying to relate to the big picture, forcing you to constantly think about the relationships. So this is the reason that the Ho-Pah-T'ho is extremely time efficient, because even though outside, people will think that you are teaching as slow as a sloth, in your brain, you are navigating these pathways at ultra high speed, extremely high frequency, and it's very, very active process, which is why it actually tends to be kind of tiring. And there are a few things that you can actually do to make your whole pothole teaching life a little bit easier. And what you can do here is, we can use something called reverse explanations. So reverse explanations is basically this thing here where you, well, the normal way of doing an explanation is you define something, you say, this is the term, and this is what it means. I want you to have a radar for this. When you're teaching, you can actually even record yourself the first time you do this and listen to yourself again and look for this. This is a sure sign that you're not doing the whole pothole correctly if you don't use reverse explanations. A reverse explanation means what you're not doing is giving the term and then defining it or explaining it. What you're doing is you're explaining it and then you are giving it a label. So, let me give you an example of a normal explanation and a reverse explanation. And I just want you to listen to how different it actually feels. The first way of explaining tends to create a very memorization type of way of thinking about it. It's very isolated. It's very fact-based. Whereas the reverse explanation is very relational. And that's a magic word, right? very relational and it feels a lot more intuitive. And as a result, it actually becomes more memorable. So let's use something like oxygen. Okay, oxygen. So the normal way of doing it would be saying there is something called oxygen. Oxygen is a molecule, a molecule created by two atoms of oxygen on the periodic table. And it is in normal temperature, it is a gas and there's a gas that's required for us to survive because it is involved in cellular respiration, which is the process required for us and our cells to stay alive, which is why we need to breathe. So that's a normal way of explaining it. And that's the way that a lot of people would explain it. I mean, maybe not exactly the same exact words and exact explanation, but generally that's the order. You say, this is oxygen, this is what it is, and a little bit more information about that. Now let me do it in reverse. So when you do it that way, you say, okay, oxygen, something to memorize. The meaning of oxygen is blah, blah, blah, blah, and the reasons relevant is blah, blah, blah, blah. It's very fact-based, it's very memorization focused. Think about a reverse explanation now. A reverse explanation sounds like this. Humans, and in fact, just animals in general, usually need to breathe. But the reason we need to breathe is because of a specific molecule in the air. And that molecule is actually the thing that allows ourselves to stay alive. And that process of staying alive, creating energy, using those molecules, that's actually called cellular respiration. And the molecule that we breathe in from the air that allows our cells to stay alive, that molecule is actually formed from two separate atoms of the same element. And that is actually called oxygen. Do you see the difference there? This reverse explanation forces me to think about how is it related to what the person already knows. A conventional explanation says, yoink, here is a new piece of information, good luck connecting that. The reverse explanation says, "All right, you already have an existing connection of knowledge. Let's see how I can fit this new thing into there. How can I make you take that knowledge, extend that out to here, extend this out to here, and then as soon as you already realize there must be something here. There is a gas, there's a molecule. What is it? There's this thing. I know why it's relevant. I know what it is. what it means, but I don't know what it is. And that is oxygen. So the information is inserted at the very end and it's boom, it's straight away connected. So that way of teaching with reverse explanations is integral to Ho-Pot-Ho. Because Ho-Pot-Ho relies on you constantly thinking about the big picture. A symptom of someone doing the Ho-Pot-Ho correctly is that they will use reverse explanations because they're primarily focused on thinking what is the big picture, and how can I make this relevant to the big picture first before I drop the label in and go into the part? So this ends up being the whole, this ends up being the specific part, the detail, the terminology, or maybe even longer, it might be an entire process or a flow or like a chain reaction or something, something very detailed, very specific, an equation, whatever it is. So when you do it this way, you are spending, honestly, 99.9% of your time is spent thinking about the big picture. So how is it that it tests you on all six levels of Bloom's Taxonomy simultaneously? It's because you actually have to speak it out loud. You have to actually teach it, which means you need to be able to, number one, you need to be able to understand the big picture. you need to be able to break that big picture down into smaller components. You need to be able to see the relationship between all of those components with each other. You then need to be able to break those components down into more specific facts or subconcepts. And you need to relate all of these to the big picture. So relationships, relationships, relationships constantly. But you also need to be able to explain all of this stuff. So you're testing your ability to recall it from memory. You're testing your knowledge of all the details. You're testing that level one knowledge at the very bottom. Do you know the definitions? Because you need to put the definition in there at the end. Can you explain it? Because you need to build that relevance. Can you apply it? Because you need, again, to build the relevance. Why is it important? Because it can be applied for things like this. So we are actually starting from the top of Bloom's taxonomy. We're starting here and we're working our way down all the way to the bottom. So we're actually testing on all of these levels at the same time for an entire topic. So it might take you a couple of hours to do a whole pot hole for an entire area of study or a big subject that you're learning, but it's well worth it because the time it takes to do that, you're constantly gonna be finding gaps. and every time you find a gap, that's an opportunity for you. So let's say you're explaining something and then you realize, oh, you know what? I'm not actually sure how to explain this using a reverse explanation properly. That means you don't know it as well as you thought you did. So you now need to go and study that. You need to revise that. You're gonna go back to your mind map. You're gonna go back to your grind map. You're gonna go back to your notes. You're gonna read more about it. You're gonna learn more about it. And you Because of the fact that you are learning it, because you realize that you can't explain it, this, this is the best part, this ends up being a problem for you to solve. And this, you trying to learn in order to be able to explain it properly, this is a process of inquiry-based learning. You are inquiring about how to teach it properly, you realize that you can't teach it properly, you found a gap, that was the gap-seeking, You found the gap, you learn about it in order to be able to teach it, and that process is inquiry-based learning. So you're teaching, teaching, teaching. You might think, man, I don't even know how to do that first paragraph. I don't know how to talk about the whole topic without going into all the details. That means you have a very fact-based understanding. So you need to go into it again. You need to think about the big picture again. You need to think about how the main things connect, the very early stages of the shoot mind map, okay, before we add all the concepts on it. That layer one of understanding the basic logic behind it, you need to go and revise that. Once you can do that, you might realize there's an issue with the layer two, the concepts behind it, how they relate together. Maybe everything's all good, but there's a certain couple concepts that you know they are related, but now that you try to explain it in reverse, you're finding it really difficult. That means you don't know it as well. So you go and learn it until you can explain it properly. So you found a gap, you learned it, and then you filled it. And that was inquiry-based learning. So we're able to find our gaps constantly, and this back and forth process happens while you teach. So even though you might actually be able to teach the whole thing in like, let's say one or two hours, it might actually take you like five or 10 hours spread across two days to finish it, purely because of the fact that you've constantly been going back and forth to the notes and pausing every now and again, because you need to just fill in all those gaps, which is great because it means you're spending a lot of that time on effective material. And then when you do past paper questions, you're gonna realize it is a joke. You will seriously, after doing this a couple of times, past papers are gonna be so ridiculously easy, you're gonna wonder why you were so dependent on them before. Now you might be thinking, wow, five to 10 hours over two days for a revision? Remember, we are BHS studyers, BHS. We've got two days to spare. So we've got 200 days to spare. Because of the fact that we have so much time available, we're able to use this high efficiency revision technique, which is extremely effective at finding these gaps. So we're able to get our knowledge to a level that most people cannot even dream of getting to within a single academic year. I've had students that learnt more, think about this. I've had students that have learnt more about the topic than the teacher knew about the topic in the same year that they first learned it using this technique. And actually, I'm 100% sure that a lot of you listening to this will get to that stage as well, doing this. And it's not even stressful, it's not even stressful. In fact, it's actually quite an enjoyable process because you realize you're finding gaps very, very efficiently. So, this is a good time investment. Okay, there's not a lot of times where I'll say there's a technique that takes a long time and it's a good thing that it takes a long time, but this is an exception. It does take a long time. it's hard to speed it up any faster. And in fact, if you start speeding it up too much, you start rushing it and not doing it properly and you lose the benefit of it. So I would say, take it as slow as you need to take it and use the technique properly and you're gonna find some pretty great results. Спасибо за просмотр!