(Teknik videosu) put in, let's say, two hours worth of time revising and you get, let's say, a 20% increase, okay? You spend two hours doing past paper questions and your knowledge of the topic increased by 20%. That's fantastic. This is a great ROI. If it continued at that rate, it will be a great technique. The thing is, though, that it doesn't, which I've already mentioned before. As you can see, the curve is plateauing out, which is why as you invest time into it, the amount of actual learning and the level your knowledge gets to starts plateauing and it plateaus relatively quickly until you get to this area here. This area here is a tunnel. This is the tunnel and what this tunnel represents is it represents when you're learning and the return on investment is basically at zero for the amount of time that you're putting into it and this tunnel is dangerous because of the fact that you can still be examined on stuff outside of this tunnel. You can still be examined on stuff outside of this tunnel. But what happens is that when you are inside the tunnel you are revising again and again and you're not learning anything new. You trick yourself into thinking that you've got everything. But here's the thing, shouldn't you get a hundred percent easily for any single test and exam? And if you do, well done. But if you don't and you're not able to do that consistently, then obviously something is up there. And especially in university, higher level subjects, this is extremely common. This is a very, very common phenomenon. People that come from high school who are used to this tunnel and they're used to doing relatively well, they never think, "Oh, like, why did I make a certain mistake?" They just think, "Oh, you know, it's just, you know, I didn't get 100%, but, you know, I got like 96%. That's good enough." But actually, the thing is, for the amount of time you spent revising, why did you only get 96%? you probably could have gotten 92% way back here by investing a third of the amount of time. So how come you did all of that revision and your percentage only increased by like three or 4%? And that's because of this tunnel. You're into this tunnel of plateau. The idea with the gap seeking system that's reconstruction based, like the Ho-Patho, and I actually don't know if there's any revision technique that's more effective and efficient for the amount of time you invest as a whole pot hole. That's a technique where in the initial stages when you invest time into it, the return on investment is relatively moderate. Is relatively moderate. Why is it moderate? Is because it's a time consuming technique, right? It's a time consuming technique. It might take you a couple of days to do a single subject. But as you invest time into it, it's consistent. It's consistent. As you invest time into it, you just continue to find more and more gaps. If you get to the point where there are no more gaps and you're doing the whole part whole perfectly, it probably means that you can consistently get 100% for any possible exam on that subject, even if it's beyond the scope. You can have an entire exam composed purely of curveball questions and you'll still get 100%. And so the tunnel is irrelevant. There is no plateau here. Why is there no plateau? Because it's gap-seeking by nature. you're spending time only where the gaps are. Therefore, it's not possible for there to be a tunnel unless you have no gaps. You legitimately have no gaps. The tunnel is formed because you're relying on something else to find the gaps for you, and it's doing it less and less as you go on. So just a little graph to make a point there. Okay, so let's move on to a few tips. Okay, whole pot hole tips that will just smooth things over for you and make it a little bit more easy. We've already talked about one of the big ones, which is reverse explanations. This is almost not so much a tip as it is like, if you're not doing this, you're definitely not gonna be doing it right. Constantly remind yourself to think about the big picture relevance. And I say this rather than saying, go back to the whole, specifically with the type of wording that I'm using here, because it's quite difficult to know what the whole actually is when you're trying to teach it. But if you just ask yourself, Is this relevant to the big picture? Is it clear why this detail is important? Those questions you ask yourself in the AIM step, why is it important? How does it relate to everything else? Is that clear? Is that coming through while I'm teaching it at any given moment? You wanna think that to yourself. Maybe even write it down and have it in front of you while you're teaching so you don't forget. The next thing is, very important, don't get locked in. Okay, don't get locked in. Locked into what? locked into teaching it the way you learned it the first time. Okay, don't get locked into teaching it the way you learned it the first time. And this is another reason why you should be doing it off. Okay, next tip, do it off memory. Do it off memory, do it off pure recall. So don't give yourself a chance to look at your mind map because you don't wanna deliberately teach it in the same way that your mind map is made up. Because now we're losing the benefit of creating it, right? We wanna deliberately try to just teach it however we think is the best way without needing an external reference point and help so that we test ourselves at the highest, most challenging level as early as possible. We don't want to deliberately teach it the same way that we taught it the first time. And in fact, while you're teaching it, doodle a mind map. So you'll see that when I'm teaching, even right now as I draw stuff, I don't tend to wait too long for me to finish writing things. I simply write things in a way that it can be expressed, like at the same speed that I'm speaking. And that's what you wanna do. You wanna have a mind map, not one that's useful for you to come back to really later. The mind map in this case is useful purely for you to be able to just track your thoughts. This is purely for you to be able to track your thoughts. So you are imagining that there is actually a student that's watching you and you're drawing it out and you just want them to be able to track what you're saying. So the way that I write notes, like when I'm doing these sort of tablet, e -whiteboard type things as I'm doing right now, I write purely for you to be able to track what I'm really saying, which is why I don't tend to write a lot of words. I use a lot of symbols and doodles and things as you've noticed by now. That's kind of what you wanna do. You wanna doodle it. And it's really useful for when you reflect on it. And also if you ask us for feedback, we can have a look at the doodle mind map that you've done. And then we can get a lot of information in terms of what your teaching flow was and whether you probably did the whole pahau technique properly, because there are certain patterns that we can see in the mind map that people draw when they don't do the whole pahau properly. Now remember, the point of the mind map here is not to have it as a set of notes. It doesn't have to be neat, okay? It doesn't have to be neat. It doesn't have to really look like it makes sense. There doesn't have to be any words on it at all, in fact. It's just simply something to sort of track your thoughts and also give yourself a little bit of interleaving by giving yourself the chance to express the relationships, express the ideas in different ways, in different forms that you might not normally have expressed it in, like doodling it. Next part is to speak out loud, or a better idea, whisper out loud because you're gonna lose your voice. And the reason that you speak out loud is because it forces you to slow down, which means that there are certain gaps that you wouldn't really know. It's kind of like if you run your hand over something to feel for bumps. If you're sort of just like slashing your hand around there really, really quickly, you're not gonna feel anything. You need to actually slow down enough so that you can really explore each point so you know where the issues are. People that rush this almost always will not do it well. It's kind of a rule. You really cannot rush this. Like, trust me, if there was a way to do something faster and it still worked, I would definitely tell you. Hopefully you believe me by now. So you wanna make sure that you're slowing down, okay? In fact, sometimes you wanna be even slower than you need to be just to give your brain chance to really explore those relationships and find the best possible angle that connects it to the big picture in the most relevant way. You might even do retakes on the same concept, explaining it three or four times until it feels really good for you and all the explanations in reverse. So you wanna slow down, that's another reason. And the other thing is because it allows you to verbalize and the verbalization process actually confers with it a little bit of extra learning, because it's not a way of learning that you're normally used to, speaking it out loud. The next thing is related to doing it off recall. You wanna give yourself at least a few days before you do this technique. So if you did the mind map, and then you skinned it to do the grind map, and then you do the whole part whole the day later, the effect is gonna be less than if you did this with expanding gap space repetition, and you did this, let's say, at the end of the week, I usually say that you should be waiting at least three days between doing a grind map and doing the whole pot hole, purely because the grind map is so effective that you're not gonna really lose much information for the next three days. If there is anything that you lose, you wanna give yourself a chance for those relationships to slightly soften a little bit so that you can see which ones were weaker. Whereas if you do it too fresh, everything is so new that there might be relationships are weaker, however, it hasn't had a chance to weaken, and so you don't actually pick them up. So you wanna give at least a few days wait between doing a grind map and doing the whole pot hole. I usually say you do the whole pot hole at the end of the week. If it's been less than three days, you just do it the week later. So I have a teaching day that I normally tell students to have in their schedule, like a Saturday or a Sunday, where that day is spent on doing whole pot hole teaching. And then if they don't do that for, let's say Thursday, Friday material, and they can do Thursday, Friday's material on the next weekend. So in that case, it'd be an eight or a nine day delay, but it's generally fine because of the fact that the grind maps has such a high retention anyway. The next tip is that we wanna make sure that we are on top of using full recall, we are actually allowing ourselves to go back and revise while we are doing it, okay? While we are actually teaching, we wanna go back to revise and go through it. So this is the idea of, you know, once you've found a gap, you do wanna go and inquire about it and receive the learning. And once you've learned it, you go back to try to recall and teach it through again. And you do that process. And sometimes if there's lots and lots of gaps, you're gonna need the next tip, which is if at first you struggle to do this, just do it again. Because even if you were really, really good at it, when you do the whole part whole, you usually find some gaps. If you struggled with it the first time and there were a ton of gaps, you can probably do it again and just find some new gaps and you can consolidate it. The whole pot hole is a technique which is based inherently on your level of knowledge. And because it's based on your gaps and your level of knowledge and how comfortable you are, using the same technique again and again, maybe if you do a hundred times, it's not gonna be relevant, but you can actually tend to do the whole pot hole. You can do the same technique two, three, maybe even four times, and it's still effective because of the fact that your knowledge is actually always changing anyway. It's always growing. So doing it the first time is different to doing it the second time, which is actually different to doing it the third time. And so it's one of those techniques that you can actually do the same technique multiple times, and you would actually get still benefit from it, even after doing it multiple times, which is very handy because it means that you don't have to then learn like four more revision techniques for the rest of the year, you can do the Ho-Patho twice and use maybe a couple other revision techniques if you have the time to do that. Okay, so these are a few tips just to make your Ho-Patho more effective. But obviously the first thing is being able to just get that core skill down a little bit first. And this may be something that you really need to bring up during your live clinic sessions, or this might be the thing that you wanna record and send to us as part of your monthly feedback, because it's something that you may want to get a little bit more individual feedback on just because of the fact that it is a relatively complex process and you might not be 100% sure if you're getting it right but you'll generally know if you're doing it the right way if you feel like you are in the cycle of finding gaps, figuring it out and re-explaining it and as you do the cycle, you feel yourself getting more and more confident with the material until you know, you just know that you're gonna get all the answers right in an exam because there's just no way, there's just no way they can ask you a question that you haven't already thought about. And that's what we want with the Ho Pah Ho.