[İTİŞE KALMAK] I'll play the clip first and then you can have a look and listen through it yourself And then after we've had a listen I'll go through and dissect it so in that first run through I'll just play the first you know three or four minutes Try to keep an air out to see if you can spot any issues that we will then pick up later It's really important that you train your skill and your ability to pick this out Otherwise when you do it yourself you're not actually gonna be able to figure it out. And you'll always be needing advice or you won't know whether you're doing it correctly or not. Now, as a general rule of thumb, if you find that whole part whole, the first one or two times that you do it, if you find that it's easy, if you find that it's relatively straightforward, there's almost a guarantee that you're doing it incorrectly. Even when I work with students that have received sort of top 0.5 or 0.1% results nationwide on a specific subject, even at that level, when I get them to try to teach it using the whole part whole framework, they often really struggle with it. In fact, they often struggle a lot. So even people that know their content really, really well and have the grades to back that up, they often still struggle. So if you, while you're still learning it, you're finding that this is actually pretty straightforward, then it's a strong sign that you're probably not doing it correctly. So let's have a watch through this together and then we'll dissect it and see how we can improve it. - Now, what is the purpose of learning about the balance of payments? But essentially the balance of payments is just a really fancy document that tracks Australia's economic transactions with the rest of the world. That's it, really. That's simply what it is. Why is it important to know? Because like, think about it. Say that we go to the shops and we buy a lot of stuff and we have a receipt at the end. It's the exact same purpose. We want to know where our money went. So say we went to the shops and spent $200 on groceries, okay? And we look at the receipt to see which was the most expensive, you know, thing we bought, which was the cheapest. What was the most, like, I don't know, like what was the heaviest product that was the most expensive one there was the cheapest, which one do we buy most of, which product do we buy the least of, and what type of products do we buy. So it's the exact same thing with balance of payments. Rather, balance of payments is looking at economic transactions and not us going to Woolworths and buying stuff. So let's just stop there for just a moment and we'll dissect what's just happened. So the relevance of it. Now, with the whole part whole, one of the most important things, right, is we're leading with importance. We have to explain why it's important first before introducing terminology. So they haven't introduced any terminology, they've sort of set a scene, they've helped us understand why it's important, and now it's a good time for them to transition into starting a breakdown into the individual components in the parts to see, will they now say, okay, so therefore the balance of payments into three different parts or two different points. If they do that, then they're more at risk of running down the line of just leading with terminology, what I call a terminology crutch, which means we just put the terminology, we say there are two different types of balance of payments, this and this, and then they explain it and then they give some examples. That's a very linear way of doing it. We wanna lead with importance. We've understood the importance of balance of payments. Now the next thing we wanna do is understand the importance of the ways that it's split. So I want them to specify and explain it a little bit more in detail still without introducing terminology So see if they go ahead and do that So it's important because just like seeing where we bought like where our money went in our groceries or which groceries You know which groceries we buy with our money the balance of payments does this on a really big scale So it doesn't like I can Country scales like you know whole economy scales, so we'll see that if we export coal That's recorded in the balance of payments if we input Toyota cars record on the balance of payments and the values also recorded So we can see where our money is coming and not only that we can also see where income is going as well We can also see lots of investment stuff so you can see that balance of payments. It's pretty big deal, right? So what are the main concepts in balance of payments? sets there's only really two main concepts but we will obviously get into more because balance of payments is linked to another really important topic that I will be learning soon and we'll be going through soon. So the balance of payments has two main concepts so number one I'd say the main concept actually yeah three main concepts I say three. So this kind of this kind of sort of some stumbling kind of you know initially said well there's two main concepts, actually no there's three main concepts that's actually very normal as well so don't don't don't think too much about that that type of little self-correction is a pretty natural part of the process so don't worry too much about that. to is economic transactions. Okay so straight away here actually we can see that they are starting to go into there we go there and there they're starting to go into the terminology and they are saying okay well there's three main concepts here there's entry, economic transactions and they're doing a terminology crutch. Now, the better way to do this would actually be to say and explain why entry and economic transactions and whatever the third main concept is going to be, would be to explain why that is important. And it would be better to explain why that's important first. Once they explain why that's important, then they can say, and this is called entry, and this is called economic transactions, and this is called the other thing. So we want to say big picture why it's important, what it's about. And then we want to say, okay, so now when we think about it, it's actually three different areas that we can say it's important and we give some examples. And then we would say, okay, so now the listener understands what it's about, they understand why it's important. The only thing they're missing now is what is it actually called? What's the name? They should be saying, "Okay, I understand this, but I don't know what it's called. Label it for me." And that's when we introduce terminology, right? So it goes big picture, then explaining the importance, specifying that importance and explaining it more still with lay terms, giving examples, and then giving the terminology saying, "And that whole thing that you've just learned about and understand now, that's called this." And then once we understand that, then we can go back to explain it again in more specific terminology, right? So once the terminology is introduced, then we can go back to explain the more detailed process. And this is where we really flesh out all the details as much as we want. And then once that is explained fully, then we can go back and we can say, Okay, now let's relate that back to the big picture again, see how it will fit in, and then we'll move on to the next part, and that's the going back to the whole. So the whole at the beginning, big picture, then explaining it and importance in terms of the lay terms, and then that's going down towards the part, dropping into the terminology, and then explaining that terminology really in depth, and all the processes or whatever's involved. And then that's the deeper part, and then say, okay, so remember that was important because of this, which fits into the big picture like this. That's again, tracking back to the whole, so whole, part, whole. And that's the process of it, right? So actually, it should track your mind map very accurately. It should track your mind map very accurately. If you did importance-based chunking, and your chunks were formed due to the things that were important for the same reason, you ask yourself, why was it important? and you found the reasons that it was important, and all the reasons that were, all the things that were important for the same reason, that became one chunk. If you chunk that way, then the way that we do the whole part whole should mirror the way that we did on mind map very closely. And that's why it's such a good revision technique because it not only forces you to do this off pure recall, but it also tests your ability to understand the relationships and the importance between the different ideas and concepts and explain it fluently. And also when we get down to the parts, we need to then go and fully in depth explain in complete detail. So it tests you on your recall of the facts and the details as well. So a really broad spectrum revision technique, which is why it's so good. But let's see how the student continues to do this. Number three, we actually get something called structure. These are-- so how do these relate to each other? So we see that the entry-- actually, there should be something like this. My partial's off. - Let's just do this. Yeah, there we go. So how is entry related? So how are these main concepts related to each other? And how do they contribute towards the purpose? So we have economic transactions. And we know that economic transactions, right here, is what was recorded in the balance of payments. I think the balance of payments is like a really fat receipt, right? And it has everything to do with other countries. You know, maybe we import cars from Japan. Maybe we export, you know, coal to China. So it's lots of, it's just a really big receipt. And you think of it as like a shopping cart as well. - I want you to keep in mind how none of what's being explained right now Required us to know this entry economic transaction and structure this whole explanation this example That's being given right now Could have been explained before introducing the three pieces of terminology and actually that's exactly what should have happened was true Ho part ho so this is reversed explanation He's not doing reverse explanation. He he's kind of slipped up on that a little bit however This is a great opportunity for reverse explanation because he's able to explain it in a relevant way You know we know enough about the balance of payments to know that it's a you know basically this ledger of all the economic transactions We know enough about that for him to have explained this and give this analogy And it would have been better to give this analogy first help us understand Why it's important what it's all about explain it and the relationship it has with these other aspects and to say all right this first thing we talked about that, you know, list of transactions, that is one of the most important key principles called economic transactions. And then do you remember the other thing, you know, whatever we talked about, that's called entry and there's this other thing that's called structure. And then we would do another explanation of it in more detail. That's using that terminology to anchor it all together. So we have this lay person understanding that's being built progressively, and then boom, we chuck the terminology in to say all of that we just talked about, this is called this, this is called this, this is called this and now let's explain that again a little bit more specialized so that we truly understand it and we say okay all of that that was important because of coming back to this main point and then going on to the next topic let's see the rest of this explanation So economic transactions is what's recorded in advance payments. And obviously it's important because we need to know the types of economic transactions that are recorded in advance payments because we do have different types, right? So we see that, yeah, we actually give stuff to people and we actually receive stuff. That's different, right? Because giving and receiving is different. Or that's the main differences we'll see in the economic transactions. Or maybe we have economic transactions that involve money instead of, you know, physical goods. Instead of coal, we might see that we actually import money or something like that. So you can see that money and coal are very different things, right? Or maybe instead of coal, we export education or tourism. And you can see that non-tangible and tangible goods, they're pretty different, right? So we can see that economic transactions will be different. Now, why is it important to know? Because balance of payments is comprised of economic transactions. So now, how is entry important? What is entry? So the reason why we need entries is because economic transactions always have a value, right? But the value won't always be positive on each and every one of them. Nor will it always be negative. So by having an entry method, we can actually classify different economic transactions into different classes, right? And by knowing this, we'll know what value the economic transaction has in the past payment. So we'll obviously see that we'll have negative and positive values. think about it like a receipt weren't always okay this is like a two-way receipt not a one-way receipt so in the shops when we go to like you know the shops will see that we always have a one way so we're always buying things right but you want to think of the balance of payments not just as us buying things but we're also sellers right so you want to think as if like as if you go to like Woolworths right and your receipt shows all the negative entries because you're buying stuff right and you're losing money but then you think about the receipt Woolworths receives, it's all positive entries, right? So that's something, that's like something what the balance of payments is like. So we can see that balance of payments or a receipt, right, will have like positive and negative entries because we'll see that from some economic transactions we will gain and some will lose. It makes sense, right? So if we actually, I'll get into the examples later, so that's why entry is important because we need to learn how to classify economic transactions into their respective values and economic transactions is what is recorded in Now finally, why is structure important? Well, think about it. If we have a really big receipt, because we... I'm going to do a reteaching of this straight after he's finished teaching it, and then you'll see the difference in how it goes. And you can see how when you flip it. Now, he's not doing a bad job. It's just that the order is a little out of order. But when I flip it, you'll see that it becomes a lot more concise, and it's easier to follow. Having said that this is I believe you know one of his first attempts, which I think is actually pretty good So I think he clearly knows his stuff, which means he probably used the existing BHS techniques pretty well But you know this is this is a very advanced level skill I would definitely say in a whole pothole is not an easy skill to learn It is definitely a learning curve and even the best students take some take some time It is the balance of payments. Every single equity transaction that happens with Trade Australia and the rest of the world is what is in the balance of payments. It's like a really big receipt, right? Like we do lots of economic transactions on a day. Imagine balance of payments, if it's recorded every quarter or even month, it's lots of transactions, right? And so we actually need a specific structure to it. If we don't have a structure, then we'll see lots of random entries and we'll be flustered because we can actually group these economic transactions together into their types, right? And so this is why structure is important. Structure is used for classifying economic transactions into their respective groups, which we'll go through soon. And that's how the balance of Amazon is structured. We'll see. Okay, so let me do that basically again, but I'm going to do it with true reverse explanation. We're going to cover basically the same points, but you're going to see that it sounds a lot more straightforward. And I want you to just pay special attention to how it wasn't necessary to introduce all of these terms to begin with. We could have done the explanation and then introduce it afterwards. I want you to pay special attention to when I do this, this little section, it was true reverse explanation. I want you to see how every time I explain it, I'm spending time to build the importance. And then, you know, I'm never really saying a statement or explaining anything that requires you to know anything specialized. We're building the knowledge progressively, starting from what you already know, slowly getting better and better and better until naturally entry structure and economic transactions will make sense, right? So here's how I would explain this whole thing. So we're learning about balance of payments and balance of payments is an incredibly important thing for the financial systems and records of, for example, a company, sorry, a country. And what the balance of payments basically is, It's talking about the things, the money going in and out, or the goods or services going in and out of a country. It's talking about all the different types of transactions that occur, and that could be literal transfer of money, it could be a transfer of resources, such as coal or exporting, it could be the transfer of a service, such as education or tourism, and then the economic exchange associated with those goods or services. So we can see that for an entire company we'd have a lot of different transactions. Some of those transactions would gain us money. Some of those transactions would lose us money, naturally. And we'd have a lot of different types of transactions. For example, education transactions is not the same as coal transactions, which is not the same as direct money transfer. And so in order to keep all of this very clean and something that we can actually analyze and use as a record for financial purposes, we have it set out in a very specific way. So there are three components of the balance of payments. One, we have the actual entry of that information into the record, and that is either a gain or a loss or some other categorization of the information. And that's gonna allow us to structure, which is the second part. And structure means that we are categorizing grouping the types of transactions so that they all make sense and it's something that we can look at and understand rather than just being a huge mass of transactions. And then what that allows is for us to see the entire record of economic transactions which is the final third big concept which is effectively what the balance of payments is a record of. So economic transactions being any of those exchanges either of goods and services with money associated them. So what we have is that we have an entry of economic transactions which are classified in some way gain or loss or some other categorization that gives us the structure of this balance of payments. And those are the three main important concepts which we will be going into in more detail. Okay so that is a way of explaining this through reverse explanation. Now I didn't practice this before I literally just learned this at the same time as you watching this video right now. And I did that explanation right off the cuff. So it's not the best, it's not the cleanest. However, hopefully you can see how I didn't really introduce the idea of structure, entry, and economic transaction as terminology until basically at the very end. And I may have used the word, for example, I may have used the word structure or entry or transaction, but I only used it in the way that I would expect a normal, just lay person to already be understanding it. I didn't use it in a way that I would expect, you know, like an expert to understand it. Or someone who's really well versed in this economics. So that's just an example of that reverse explanation. Now this is the most common mistakes that students will make. Even very, very top achieving students, there's usually this bias for terminology crutching, where we just say, okay, we've got entry, economic transaction, and then structure. Entry means this, economic transaction means this, structure means this. And it may seem like a very small change to not introduce that terminology until the end, but by doing that, we are forced to explain the idea of something purely through its relationship with other things, because we don't have terminology to fall back on. We don't have a definition to fall back on. And so it tests our ability to know the associations and relationships between ideas very, very explicitly. If you don't know why structure is important, you're gonna have a very difficult time explaining and making sense of it and getting someone to understand why they need to care, if you don't know why it's important in the first place. Only when you know how structure and entry and economic transaction, how that's all funneled together, only then would you be able to explain it in a way that can be understood and that the listener knows why they need to care about entry, why they need to care about structure, why they need to care about economic transactions You know you can only you can only do that when you know the stuff really really well and obviously when we go into the More detailed parts, so I will presume that right now what we're gonna do is go into economic transaction and really probe into it and a lot more detail and Really go into structure and really go into entry in a lot more detail when we do that then I as well. But it's the same process. Every new thing that we introduce, we're going to be doing this reverse explanation. We're going to lead with importance and we're always going to be relating it back to the big picture. After we cover any part and we explain anything in detail, we're always going to be saying, "Okay, that was important because it just brings it and we just bring it back and we do that big picture summary." So it seems relatively simple, but it is actually truly quite challenging to do. The student did a pretty good job of it for a first go, but that little switch in terms of reverse explanation is an important one, which adds a surprising amount. One other thing that I'll add as well that you'll probably see a lot with different types of whole part whole is that different subjects have different ways of communicating that importance. And you'll know this from doing your mind maps, you know, demonstrating the importance of a group of information. And chemistry is different to biology, to physics, to economics, to philosophy, to politics, to English, to maths. They're all different for different ways and therefore the way that you teach them is going to be different as well. Hopefully you're used to thinking about them in different ways from practicing the BHS through those topics so far. But just keep that in mind as well when you do the whole part whole. Don't expect every subject to feel the same. There's going to be a different way of explaining the importance of different topics just inherently because of the way the topic is structured. But we're always bringing it back to the same fundamental principle, which is we lead by importance always. we always explain the relevance of it first. And now when we combine this technique with other forms of revision like brain dumps, you know, Mind Map or linear brain dumps, your flashcards, group study with sharing and creating challenging questions with each other, making your own questions, doing pre-made questions. When we combine all of that, we're gonna have really high levels of retrieval practice, which means that obviously our ability to perform in the exam is going to be higher. And just as another note if in case you're forgetting, remember don't do these retrieval practices too close to each other. You need to give yourself space to forget, to flush it from your short-term memory so that you can truly see how much you're able to retrieve from your long-term memory. If you're doing a revision of the material every single day, then you're not actually giving yourself enough time to see, you know, flush it out to see how much you're actually actually retaining in your long-term memory. If you did a mind map on one day, give it three or four days before you do a whole part whole teach. And then give it another four or five days before you start creating challenge questions and give it one or two weeks before you answer those questions and give it another two weeks before you go and do a group study or group quizzing with your friends or something. You know, make sure that you're adhering to relatively decent spacing to give yourself the opportunity to forget so you're truly able to test on the retrieval. 谢谢观