(Sessizlik) The topic we'll be studying today will be about a very interesting topic called electromagnetism in physics. Now straight off we can see electricity and magnet out here. And before we get into the deeper concepts, let's just take off wires and portals. So this method of using the word itself to break down the biggest first chunks is actually quite a good technique and it's often an efficient way of getting into the topic. So look around you like you're on your desk. We have our, you know, right now on my desk there's a lamp shining and we follow the wire, the cable, and then it leads to a power point. And How this lamp is actually lighting up on my desk. So there's electricity coming from that power point. But where's the electricity from the power point coming from? Probably the power lines. Power lines, just go like that. And where, power lines are just, we all know that's just where electricity flows. But where's the initial source coming from? It's probably the power station. And how is electricity generated? Like, how is it that everything, electricity, We pay the bills, but how is it actually made? It's not something that we just get in nature for free. It's generated basically in the power station, but how is it? - So this flow of right now justifying, you know, where the power actually comes from, because this may not be something that you'd normally think about. How is electricity generated in that statement? You know, we don't just get it from nature for free. And this is quite a good flow. This could have been done a lot more concisely, But at a, you know, just starting to use this technique for the first time, getting into it, this is, you know, definitely a good attempt. - The mile, that's created there, and then through the power line, comes right in everyone's rooms. But you know, we use it to almost do anything from, you know, use it as lamps, like, or everything almost, involving electricity. Sometimes we use solar energy, but even then too, you know, that's like charging our laptops, you know? One more interesting thing I'll get to later on is, just have a look at your laptop charging cable and it'll be something like this big box looking thing and then it'll connect to the cord. And this box looking thing is, you know electromagnetism also explains what this is. And once I get into that, this is really important 'cause, well it's not important, well it is important and it's really interesting because just to give you a heads up, like let's come back to this idea of generating a power station. And... - So there's a little bit of difficulty there trying to lay out the big chunks without using the terminology. And I can see that he's sort of signposting that he's gonna talk about it. You know, when you're feeling this level of kind of awkwardness in terms of the flow, you don't have to worry too much about it. You're always just making sure, like don't try to think of it as checklist of, I need to check off my chunks, you know? Don't think of it as checking off a checklist of chunks. Think of it as, does the listener understand why what I'm about to talk about is going to be important? Okay, as long as you're able to communicate that importance, then you've done your job and you can move on. So at this point, I feel like I know why it's important to generate electricity. And I'm curious as to know how. So this will be fine to segue into it. Unless there was another aspect, like for example, if we were saying, you know, and then the electricity is generated, how does that happen? And then once it's generated, it comes into our room and for example, into our laptop, how does that energy then get translated into something that our devices can actually use? Because for example, just, you know, if we hold our laptop up to a lightning strike, it doesn't mean that it's gonna charge it. So there has to be something else that happens and electromagnetism also explains this as well. So that could be a way of bringing it together. So in my mind, I'm thinking, okay, I'm gonna talk about two things to do with electromagnetism and these are the reasons why they need to think it's important. So I'm always making sure that I'm bringing myself back to justifying the importance of what I'm talking about or the ideas I'm about to introduce. - It's traveling through the power lines and through this, you know, why is it, or the question is, how, it's gonna be tons of electricity to get rid of this main station, 'cause you know how many homes are there, how many suburbs are there, and there's gonna be, you know, we use power points, we don't use power, or foreign charging, yep, so, But, you know, this doesn't adjust for every... Let's say, you know, it's gonna be different when you charge a phone compared to when you charge a laptop, compared to when you're gonna watch a TV. And, you know, our laptops are literally gonna explode if that's how much... So we've covered the basics/how electricity gets to our homes/some interesting stuff about our laptop, just to give you a heads-on on stuff later coming. And before we delve into more pragmatism, these two things are common for us, rather. And one of them is, we all know what this one is, you know, we've learned this since grade nine, it's like, just imagine, hold your hand and push something, you know, hold your cup. Or you're even sitting right now on a chair. There's something, you know, we all know there's gravity, right? You're probably sitting on a chair right now, if you're listening to this, or if not, or you're standing on the floor or something. And we all know by now that there's gravity acting on us. It's way more to it than just, you know, there's gravity, the chair will just fall into the deep, deep, deep down layers of the earth. But we don't, because there must be something that can back up, right? So, and these things, as we know, push, pull, or twist, as we've learned in grade eight, the force. Nothing to it, we have, they're two different stuff. Right, it seems like they're two different stuff, but why is there one more thing? And that's what we get to later on. But before we get to that, let's cover this up. The force is easy to understand, and most people know this one, but what people don't realize is that there's a new addition as a step up from grade eight or nine, once we enter grade 12 intellectual magnetism. It's not just your two little magnets interacting with each other. Like, you know, when we were little child, we were like, "Why? How come the red and the red, they don't like each other?" For some reason. Why is it that when another... Let's just say this is a magnet just for some simple explanation. And why is it that when this guy comes near this, There's something like attraction or repulsion, as we call it, you know, attraction or repulsion. It's a repulsion. We have a man that is, we have a man. - So there's something that's happening that hopefully you guys can see from watching this is that there's a lot of delaying in order to draw things. And this is a very important thing. And I've mentioned this is that when you're drawing mind maps while you're teaching, never teach to the mind map. The mind map is there just for you to track your thoughts, but you should never really be breaking your flow of speaking to give yourself time to draw out an elaborate mind map. You may spend, you know, give yourself a three to five second delay to finish off writing a quick keyword, but, you know, we've been kind of skipping through like three minutes of just talking about the idea of, you know, like electromagnetism basics, which could be much more concise. could be done in just 30 seconds. The analogies that are being given right now and the way that it's trying to pique our curiosity is good, but the issue here is that it's not very concise. And the reason it's not concise is because the student doesn't understand exactly what is important to communicate right now. So he's thinking, "I need to communicate this point, "and in order to communicate that, "I need to tell them about this thing, "or this is my certain flow." But they haven't made it really clear and explicit what is the thing that if they were to know, that would signify the importance to them. So for example, going back to the force example that was used before, you know, with a chair, you know, just going down endlessly into the deep layers of the earth without, you know, other, something to balance it. The idea behind forces, if we already know that the audience knows about forces, and in this case, the assumption was made that general idea of forces was already learned previously, then you can simply just introduce that as forces and then frame it so that we understand that electromagnetism is a type of force. And we'd be done with that. And we could just draw an analogies by saying that it's just like, it's kind of like gravity. It's another type of force. And we will be done with that. And that's enough to understand there's no terminology really needed. There's not really elaborate, more technical, new information that we're introducing here. We're just working off what they already know. and we're able to cover that point pretty concisely. Likewise with this, we can simply say, you remember previously we learned about how, you know, opposites attract and likes repel with, you know, bar magnets, but actually, why does that actually happen? What causes these attractive or repulsive forces? And that will be enough. We would have gotten the point across by doing that. And we could have drawn a little diagram just to represent that, but this is kind of going on a little bit too much. So this is an example where that flow is being broken up. Number one, because there's too much delay from just giving yourself time to write things down. Again, this is not a mind map that's made to be, you know, perfectly archived for future reference. It's a mind map that's made to document your teaching process. And then, you know, so that's number one. And the second thing is because there is a general lack, not lack, but a slight lack of clear prioritization exactly what is important to communicate in order for the importance of this to be justified. And this obviously translates into your learning because it simplifies your ability to chunk, it tunes your brain and calibrates it so it looks for those important chunks more quickly and more automatically. And it means that you're able to traverse the relationships from the logic layer all the way down to the details and back up again much more fluently because you know the fastest way to get up and down those different layers without needing to justify every single point. This is very common to see in people that are just starting the technique, not knowing exactly how much justification is necessary. And this is because the brain has not been tuned to knowing when importance has been communicated. Again, this translates into studying when you're reading a piece of text, not having a brain calibrated to looking for things that justify the importance. So it's two sides of the same coin. It's that calibration on importance, either explaining it through this hōpātō teaching, or through seeking that information yourself through reading or listening in class or asking questions and things like that. So two sides of the same coin. And this is one of those things that will get better with practice, but you can see how with the hōpātō technique, watching a recording like this, you can see how clear it is, how it hasn't been completely cohesively understood And so the whole pot hole technique is great for establishing and showing these slight deficits. So this is a big thing that the student will need to work on. They're doing fine, but they just need to practice more, evaluate themselves more and really become more concise and be highly prioritized in knowing exactly what they need to explain in more detail, what they don't need to explain, and how to traverse those points more fluidly. So partly practice, partly reflection, but for a beginner stage, this is going in the right direction it seems like. Although I would like to see them go into the details a little bit more quickly, and so that's that conciseness coming back again. İzlediğin için teşekkür ederim.