(speaking in foreign language) - So as before, we're gonna take a look at another whole part whole by another student. And I want you to listen and be very attentive to the key principles we're looking at. Is this person able to explain the concepts, navigate the logic or the layers of learning very smoothly? Are the terminology crutching? Are they using the reverse explanations properly in that are they showing a clear understanding of the concepts by themselves, by nature, or are they having to rely on saying, this is a terminology and here's a definition in order to explain it properly, and therefore, are they able to notice the gaps? Now, one thing that should be mentioned again is remember that these examples that we're seeing right now are kind of the more final versions of the students' attempts. So the first time you use the whole pothole, you will inevitably find that there are areas that you're not able to explain properly. And when you encounter these areas, you'll go and look them up again and learn them better, and then try to explain them again, rewinding a little bit. And so it's a naturally very recursive process as you're going back and forth between the material and your notes and the source and trying to teach it and finding weaknesses and going back and forth. And those weaknesses may come in the transitions between layers, especially going from more the logic layers or those issues may come from even the details where the memorization of the very specific piece of information is a little bit more lacking. And so you wanna look out for where the problems might actually be. And so keep that in mind when you're listening this is that the issues that I talk about are not necessarily the most common in that they may not be the ones that you face when you're first doing this, but they're likely to be the most common in the final stages once you've figured out the key, big, most obvious issues. So for example, if you forgot how to explain a very specific detail right down in layer three or layer four, that's something that's pretty obvious. You'll likely be able to fill that in yourself. Okay, so anyway without any further ado, let's get into it and have a listen biodiversity in that biodiversity encompasses the variety and variability of life on earth, I'm going to be looking at a more specific part of it. And by this specific part, before I tell you what it is, I just want you to ask yourselves, in biodiversity, what is the strangest thing that happens? Well, personally to me, the thing that, the strangest thing that happens besides, I guess evolution is how species, different species of organisms like cats, dogs, mice, elephants, lions, people, is how they interact with one another. It's like this strange, this strange like wiring in our brains and every living organism's brains to, in one way or another, interact with each other. So you have a person, you have a cat, You have an elephant. You even have other other um organisms as well up to like mosquitoes as well. Mosquitoes have this strangeness to interact with each other. Not in a good way, I do, but they still, but a bad interaction is still an interaction. Well this leads to the next question of why? Why is everything interacting with each other? and everything. So, so far this is a good introduction again. A little bit of that teaching to the mind map sort of thing. It could be a little bit faster and more concise, but the point at least is being gotten across is a good point. So, there's no major issues yet. So, let's see how the student then transitions through the remaining major chunks and bits of logic and how they're able to shift that into the concepts and maybe later into the details. Once they interact with each other, not so that they can help each other or necessarily screw the other person over or the other species over, it's more or less this instinct to not die out. And I guess the meaning of not dying out is in the name, trying to to preserve their species, not die. And so there's many different ways the species work together. But actually, just the other day, I saw this magpie that was just brutally attacked by a bunch of other birds of the same species. And perhaps it was for some very specific reason. Maybe the birds had a vendetta against this magpie. But to me, it just seemed like they were just trying to protect their territory. And so looking at these types of interactions is not only very interesting, but it can actually to gain a better understanding of how our world works and how we can obviously take a step to preserve this uniqueness of life. And so And this is the whole idea of species biodiversity. Labeling there. And also how these different species interact with one another. It all forms like this fantastic web of just trying to not die. That's basically it And one of the things, more specifically, one of the first, one of the obvious things that species try to do to not die Is to adapt to their environment And we know, and everyone knows what adapting to your environment is. You learn in primary school, you learn that If it's cold outside, if it's a cold hand attack there's going to be animals that are going to have fur. But how do we actually trace this lineage, I guess, of actually the species actually acquiring fur? We know they're just not randomly born with it. We know that you can't just have a furless wolf that births a wolf that has fur. That doesn't make sense. Instead, they gradually evolve over time. The way that the student has introduced the main chunks was quite good. I don't know if there are more chunks that will be introduced later, but if this is kind of this general scope of the entire topic that's about to be taught, I think that's done quite well. The other thing is the use of the examples, you know, Furless Wolf used during the explanation to help make sense of it. That's a really good way of including very specific details that might be layer three or layer four, Rather than leaving it all the way to the end purely because that exists in a later layer Using it and incorporating those details during the explanation To allow it to make sense in layman's terms in that layman's stage of teaching is an effective way of Answering the question of have has the has the listener understood why this is important You know those very specific examples may be immediately easy to understand doesn't require too much explanation a layperson could understand it And it's a very good way of kind of navigating that so I think that's being done quite well and another thing to look at and Definitely to give credit for is That even though the I suppose you could say fluency of speaking is a little bit Stop not stuttering, but a little shunted. It's not coming through very very quickly It can obviously be a lot more concise. I'm listening to this at one point seven times seven five time, speed. It's not going back and forth. There is a clear direction of the flow of events and it is, in terms of the flow, relatively smooth, even if the verbal fluency is not there yet and that again takes a little bit of practice. So far, so good and I think definitely some people could pick up on and learn from how the student is using examples during the teaching process and this is again how the layers of learning it doesn't it's not a direct map for how to do mind maps or how to do multi-paths or how to do a whole part whole but it is a way of thinking of information and you can see how it can come through in multiple different ways and multiple different techniques. So anyway let's get back into the teaching again. And this is and this leads to the idea of um not molecular biodiversity but more importantly it actually shows us how different species come to exist. And so the biggest factor of why there are different species is based around their environment. And you know for people, I mean we can make what our environment is, we can make it hot, cold, we can make it various, but obviously many species they lack that cognitive ability to actually build houses and build air conditioning. However, there are many species that go this extra mile to change their environment. And what an environment has, more specifically, is that every environment isn't the same. We know this. We know that deserts aren't the same as coral reefs. Obviously coral reefs, the biggest difference is that they have water, whereas deserts just have sand. But this begs a bigger question of, well, if there's so many different environments, How come the fact that there's so many different environments creates so many different species? And this is where we see the link. More specifically, we see that the things that aren't alive in the environment, such as sand, water, minerals, salt, these things, they don't come out of living beings. We don't put them there. Animals don't put them there. They come there by themselves. And this is the term, abiotic factors. The fact is that art inherently biotic and biotic is just produced by living things. It's just another way of saying living things. So good example here of the terminology coming at the end. Again, there's a reverse explanation. Again, conciseness can be worked on, but overall the flow is good, so no real issues so far. So it's tracking along quite well and we're going into the sub chunks. We've introduced the idea of environment as a main chunk, and we're going into the sub chunks of abiotic and biotic factors. And you can see that now the terminology is becoming a little bit more technical. So let's see if the student's able to continue and persistently introduce terminology through appropriate reverse explanation. And again, the whole pothole is meant to test you on the high level logic as well as that low level specific detail. So what I want to see after the terminology has all been introduced for this particular chunk I want to see an explanation of it now in that specific detail I really want to hear an explanation in the maximum detail that you would need for your test or your exam coming in after we Have laid this layman's foundation and so we'll see if we get to that level as well And there's so many different a bio factors Going back to the desert and coral reef example, deserts are very empty, coral reefs are very rich, there's a lot of coral, there's a lot of different fish, there's even sharks, turtles, it's absolutely packed with just different species. Why? Because they can support so many different species. But the desert, it's not as if the desert is just empty sand, there's tiny, tiny insects that are just roaming around, sometimes just hiding away from. And there's obviously the main thing, the main man, the cacti. Cacti still live in pheasants, right? They're not dead. But this is important because all of these, I guess, species, these actually lead to how other species interact in species interaction. We have many different factors that lead to having different species, and we also have the wilder factors that lead to how species interact with one another. So it felt like that that was probably quite an important chunk to chunk connection that was being bridged there. And I think this example of the cactus or something was probably a particular detail that the student wanted to memorize or have an anchor there as for future reference. So you can sort of hear how they're trying to get to this connection. And again, that fluency needs a little work. But overall, you know, the flow of how it's going is very good. I do wonder, was this done from memory or was this done referring to notes? Ideally it should be done from memory. And for an example, obviously, so we'll look at the coral reefs more specifically. So imagine if you were just fish. Um, you will be a orange fish. You can be Nemo. And you're just swimming through the coral reefs, enjoying your life, trying not to die. trying to find a mate to reproduce with so that your species does not die. And so, you can't just swim in the open, if you swim in the open, you're just easy fish food. So, how do we... So how do you actually get eaten? Well, you have to obviously use your environment to your own advantage. Now actually, just aside from this point, a big fish, a blue fish, is actually one of these special interactions and we obviously know it as predation. prey eats fish. And obviously, the prey, us, the little fish, we don't like to get eaten, that's bad, all the way, kind of thinks about itself trying not to die. And so, how can we actually find a way to stay safe? We can work with our environment. We, the little fish, here, we can work with many biodefactors, but also we can work with biodefactors, to our own benefit. So for example, we're a clownfish. One about a factor that we can use for an advantage is obviously that in Coral Reefs, the environment that leads to these about factors, they obviously have giant rocks, right? They have giant rocks that we can use to take shots at, we can hide from the big fish here and die. But maybe there's a small fish, perhaps not a fish but maybe an eel. Maybe there's an eel that's sly enough to slick through the rocks and actually still be able to kill us and eat us. So not only can we use living factors, but we can also use other living factors to help us. And so for us to interact with the other living factors to help the environment, in this case the coral reef, perhaps we can make a trade-off. Perhaps we can give them something, and they can give us something. In this case we can't fish, so we obviously want protection. And the species that provides us protection is a strange anemone, sorry, anemone, that has these very unique tentacles that they've adapted to their environment to not die. they have this special thing that actually shocks living species. And maybe... A couple of things I want to mention, hopefully you can hear it, is that he's referring to the whole idea of not dying multiple times, just as a re-connecting to the big picture, which is very good. And that's going back to the biggest hole. The area that I think does need a little bit more work, though, is at this stage we're seeing how some of the more sub chunks and more detailed concepts and examples, you're starting to see how this topic of biodiversity is coming together a little bit better. But it feels a little bit abstract in a way, it feels like there's a lot of ideas talked about that I feel like I want everything to consolidate. So we're doing the whole and we're going to the part well, but I wanted, I would like to have heard a summary of everything to say So, you know, we covered the, and that summary could simply sound as simple as saying, so we've covered the idea that biodiversity is referring to all these factors, living and non-living, biotic and abiotic, that contribute to the adaptive pressure required for species to not die, as well as the interactions between all the different species and elements in the biodiversity sphere. So now let's, so that would be like a big picture summary of everything we've talked about, where we then say, okay, so now let's have a look at some of the more specific interactions and we're actually signposting going into a specific topic. So that's the main thing sticking out to me around now is that I would really have liked to have heard a little bit of a summary before we move back into more detail, just so that we aren't losing track of things. And that's kind of a more intermediate slash slightly advanced level problem with whole part whole so you know the basics are being done very well so far and The next level of improvement is to make sure that we've got these little mini Summaries almost serving as a mental checkpoint to allow all the ideas to just come together Maybe that will come soon, but it should have come already a little bit earlier ago So let's just keep listening to see how they navigate through the remaining details again now. We're listening at double speed [VIDEO PLAYBACK] But what if we had a situation where perhaps we try to interact with this man? Perhaps we are a clownfish, perhaps we are a turtle. A majestic turtle gliding through the ocean. With grace and beauty. And so as a turtle, we are just swimming around in the ocean, minding our own business. Perhaps we can see grass as well. I legitimately just want to pause to say that I appreciate those little tiny animation movements that he's doing, and the bits of humour in there. So you know, this is looking good in terms of teaching ability. But maybe in the seagrass, there is a strange, maybe while swimming actually, a strange piece of plankton sticks onto a shell. And over time, that plant grows up to become a barnacle, two barnacles. Both barnacles benefit, obviously because they get to have free transport around the ocean, or the coral reef, and they don't even have to pay anything. And the turtle, this majestic turtle here, he doesn't care. It's not as if he's dying, right? This is actually what we call "commensalism". This is when two species interact with each other where one benefits, and the other one, such as the turtle, doesn't really gain or lose anything. But, we know that over time, the population has to grow. Two barnacles will eventually become four barnacles, four barnacles eventually become eight barnacles, and eight barnacles only becomes like 16. And eventually, this turtle shell here is going to get too crowded, and only that, it's going to start adding way too much weight onto the turtle, and it's going to be very challenging for it to swim. Which obviously means it's going to have to free itself from predation. And so at this point, the turtle is actually starting to not benefit, but he's actually starting to get screwed over. And this is not commensalism anymore. Biologists refer to this as "immensalism". And immensalism is when two species interact with one another. One species, such as the barnacle here, they are benefic, whereas the other species is actually... Sorry, it's not immensalism. The correct term for this would be... - Well, we're technically, okay. This is when it starts to get complicated. Well, we know that in biology. - So we just saw a whole pothole perfectly right now where a gap was identified and trying to explain it. And now whatever is learnt in order to correct that mistake that we just saw, that information is gonna be held onto and retained much more, at a much higher quality. And our ability to use this information not limited to just purely having memorized it, but we'll be able to use that along all the different layers of learning and it will automatically be connected to everything around it because the whole time we're explaining and teaching this, we have to relate it to why it's important. So this is a great example of the whole pothole, picking up an issue at the concept layer, concept/important detail layer of learning. I think there's never black and white. This is just one of the many examples where you You can't just give something a label. You can't be sure about whether something is either, whether an interaction is mutual, or whether it's commensurable, I guess. It's not always black and white. We know that's not how biology works, because if it was, everything would be a lot more simple, and perhaps society would have advanced like 300 years by now, in human research, I guess. This here, this example with the barnacles, I guess, overriding this title, is that the barnacle actually starts to become sort of a parasite, where it's taking a lot, having a lot of benefit, and at the same time, it's screwing over or harming the turtle. And this is the term "paracysitism" or "parasitism". Now, the word "mensalism" that I mentioned before, it's kind of similar. Now, the difference is that it's very oddly specific. There's hardly any example where you'd find this expression. And really, it's when you have a species that-- There's two species interacting. One is not even a big benefit, it just exists. And the other one, it doesn't get any benefit either, it just gets harmed. And I guess one example would be this very specific Australian tree that is affected by this strange root. And this root basically just exists. Obviously roots still want to have nutrients to not die. And to do this, unfortunately, they've just chosen this specific tree as their sacrifice. Where do they get their nutrients from? Well, it's not even really a sacrifice as well. It's more or less, they just happen to land there and they just start doing their own thing. So, we know that CZ is going to be around this way. So easily an alternative way of having learned that could have been just to memorize commensalism, parasitism, emensalism, and mutualism. But then we wouldn't have been able to get the subtle difference between, for example, parasitism and emensalism and how commensalism and emensalism are almost the same side of a single coin where one exists and for commensalism one benefits, whereas with amensalism one exists and the other is not benefited. Whereas parasitism is one is gaining at the expense of another. So you can kind of see how they could exist on a spectrum of mutualism to commensalism to amensalism and then parasitism. And you know that would have, that could be another really high-level sort of way a big picture way of showing the relationship and between these concepts so looking for that simple way of bringing it all together and so that will be another little mini summary to explain what we've just explained before we move on to the next part of the topic whatever that is But why is this important? Well, we know it's important so that species can survive and not die. But there's a very delicate balance. It's usually not just two different species. In fact, you can have multiple species interactions that actually create a chain of one another. So for example, if we had a duck... Let's just say this species of duck likes to eat bugs. ticks, or whatever. And strangely enough, there is a boar. Actually, you know, it makes this a bit more fun. Let's say there's a man-cat. This is very strange. Man-cat. I don't know how to draw a man-cat. This is a man-cat. It's hard to fix. And there is a boar. If anyone gets this reference, good on you. But, okay, so this boar, it just exists. It doesn't do anything. But, what if this boar had parasites? The first interaction we see is obviously parasitism. This boy is losing nutrients while these parasites just breed, or ticks, I guess, just breed like crazy and they just start to grow. Eventually over time, the boy is going to die because of his immune block. But here comes this new guy, and he starts to just block away at those bugs. Because I guess New Guy has a lot of ticks, the new guy is to his benefit, the blog is to his benefit, this is mutualism. However, there's also an interaction that happens between the new guy and the ticks. Obviously, the ticks aren't getting harmed because they're dying, but the manatee are getting benefit in that they're getting nutrients. So perhaps the interaction between a manatee and a tick is parasitism, similar to the tick in the bottom. And this is where we start to get a little bit complicated, where it's not just this... A manatee isn't obviously a parasite, we know this. A manatee has a mammal, it has babies, it has... It gives birth, it has a lot of eggs. I don't know if it does, I mean I've been missing forms my entire life. But, as we can see, it starts to become complicated when multiple species start to interact with one another. But under this giant scope, under these species interactions, this idea of working together and balance, yes we know that some species have multiple interactions with one another, but when you think about this under a radioscope perhaps, perhaps not in a coral reef, but more in a forest which we are more familiar with. A forest has hundreds of different species working together, there's eagles trying to eat worms, there's worms that add nutrients to the soil by decomposing dead bodies, sorry not dead bodies, dead organic matter, there's trees that provide photosynthesis and energy and they grow, well they grow fruit, and I'm the environment where they grew up in. Obviously we understand evolution of the time, species started to adapt to it. And through their adaption, they started to interact with various plants. And this is just one part. The species diversity is part of the bigger picture. Not just biodiversity, but overall how life maintains itself on Earth. So, you know, good little summary at the end there. I would have liked for that example of predation to just being fleshed out a little bit better and a little bit more detail in terms of, you know, how do we know what type of interaction is and how does like a predator-prey relationship sort of fit in there and how, you know, is species, you know, what is the other things around biodiversity, around species biodiversity? And I don't know if this was the full level of detail that would be needed for a test or an exam, and if it is, that's fine, but if there is more detail that's needed, then that really should be taught as well. I also don't know if this is the full scope of this topic. If it was, that's fine, but if it wasn't, then really, whole-heart-whole benefits from teaching more. So if, for example, the topic was more about the whole of biodiversity and species diversity, it's just sort of half of it, then it would be better to have taught the entire topic of biodiversity rather than just species biodiversity. We always wanna be doing it topic-wide, whether it's our mind maps, whether it's our whole part whole, when we're doing high volume retrieval practice in general, it's better to go as comprehensive as is feasible. Obviously, if you don't have much time, then you are time restricted, but within the time constraints that you have, you wanna cover as much as possible. So the main issues here are the lack of more mini checkpoints and summaries and lack of kind of super clear anchoring as a result of that in terms of, okay, well, what are we really talking about now? We were able to do the reverse explanation really well, but it was kind of unclear what chunk or sub chunk it belonged to. So in my mind, it's harder to group the information as I'm going along. So these mini checkpoints where we're kind of grouping and reminding ourselves what the chunks and sub chunks are, again, would have been really good. And that's the biggest weakness and the next step for this. But the reverse explanation, which is usually the hardest part of whole part whole, was done pretty well. There is a question mark on whether it was detailed enough and whether it was topic wide enough, because I don't know the extent of how much needs to be learned in this topic. But, you know, again, if that wasn't the full depth of detail, and if that wasn't the full breadth of the topic, then those also will be areas to be improved on. But overall, a very solid whole pot whole attempt. And so far, the examples that we've worked through, this seems to be most well-roundedly the best one, where the biggest issues are kind of covered, although some of the other ones did have certain mini aspects that we've done a little bit better, a little bit more fluency here and there. But again, for a beginner level, this is certainly a pretty good example Hope hot hole.