Let's have a look at an example of Hopon Holdom by another student for the topic of equilibrium and chemistry. As before, try to look for the patterns that you can recognize and pick up on that might indicate a lack of either reverse explanation or inadequate chunking, maybe issues with flow or fluency, or maybe they're just not coming back and relating it to the big picture, coming back to the whole after explaining a part in detail. So we'll see how it goes and try to pick up on it and we'll dissect it as we go. Keep on the edge of your brain or seat and really be focused in on it so that you're able to follow along when we dissect it. There's no point just watching this blindly or going through and skipping to just me dissecting it then you're not going to learn anything. You're not going to be able to pick it up in yourself. You may have the exact same issues that these students have and you may send me a video with exactly the same problems and you won't even know it because even if you listen to it yourself, you haven't trained your ears and you haven't trained your eyes and trained your brain to pick up on the problems. So that's obviously the most important thing. Anyway, let's get to it and see how this student does. Okay, so today we're going to be learning about a topic called equilibrium in chemistry. So all around us there are these tiny little things, these tiny dots around us that make up everything. And these things are called acids. Now, these tiny particles, they bump into each other randomly. They randomly move around, and they bump into other particles or atoms. And when they bump together, they can form a new substance, which we call a molecule or a compound. And you know with these, you know the formation of this new molecule We've created something new chemically and the process of creating something new chemically is known as a reaction I'm just gonna pause there for just a moment and So this this is not done. This is not done badly. It's pretty good so far There's a couple things that you may pick up on, like, you know, the word atoms and the word molecules was introduced pretty early, right? And yes, and generally we want to put off terminology for a while. In this situation, it may be permissible simply because the terminology that's being introduced is not conceptually really dense. the concept of atoms is not that difficult and understanding the concept of a molecule is not very difficult. So it's in that kind of gray area where introducing it kind of early could make sense, especially because it was done in context. There was a context built around it. It wasn't just like, here is a definition for a thing that you need to know. You know, there was a sort of story being built and the terminology is introduced in a way that feels natural and easy to follow along with. Where not introducing it may make the story unnecessarily difficult. And this is one of those areas that is kind of, requires a little bit of experience. I don't have hard and fast guidelines on this particular thing. Although having said that, I will actually mention that I think it's, it would have been better still to have done something more in terms of a layman's explanation before introducing it. So instead of going directly into atoms and molecules and saying this is a reaction, you know, I would have actually done a little bit more. Assuming this is teaching the imaginary student that knows absolutely nothing which Something as simple as atoms and molecules Maybe you know if you're a year 9 or a year 10 student sure bring it all the way down Assume that your imaginary student knows nothing if you're a year 12 student You're 13 University Then in that case Assuming that they know what an atom or a molecule is is probably reasonable enough But here's here's an example of how we could do this without assuming that they know anything We could have said You know look all around you look at the look at you know your phone and your desk and your your calculator your cup Your mug the water the ocean fish people All of these things are made up of tiny little building blocks, and we probably know of these building blocks called atoms But how is it that water is you know a different type of substance from my skin? or from the air or from you know my phone. What is the distinguishing feature that makes these substances so completely different from each other even though they're all made up of atoms? Well on one hand they're made up of different types of atoms but also they're made up of different combinations of atoms. So we could have the exact same two types of atoms that come together in a completely different way and that combination might make a different substance. So for example the atoms involved in creating a tree are largely very similar to the atoms that are involved in creating a human. You know there's a lot of the same elements there. There's all the same carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen and all of those same atoms are present but they are present in different combinations and they form different structures and those structures that are formed between these different atoms are called molecules and way that that happens is that they bounce around, they hit each other and then they can create this new combination structure and when it does that, that transformation is called a reaction. When we go from whatever to another thing, so the definition of reaction is blah blah blah blah blah blah and that's when I'll be really really specific about the part. So that's an example of how we can extend that story out and build a little bit more. In this particular instance, talking about atoms and molecules again, it may be excessive because it is quite a basic concept. But if you are at a low level of your year, or you're not super advanced at the topic, or you personally don't feel 100% comfortable with it, then definitely bring it down and assume that they don't know anything. But if you do feel relatively comfortable, and this is stuff that your imaginary student should know this at least, you're in your third year of university and you're going through this stuff, and you know that even your imaginary student understands the concept of an atom and a molecule and a reaction then you can skip that obviously. So anyway let's keep going and we'll see how this student continues on. Now there are different types of reactions so one type of reaction that you can consider is one in which all of you know so let's say that we have some sort of reactants NB which are just random atoms and they combine as in they bump into each other to form product C. One case is where you have... I really like how he said they combine as in they bump into each other so that that's a small thing that actually brings it back to the whole because the whole was painted with the idea of you know atoms bumping around and then by making sure that that explanation is consistently in that same level of simplicity using lay terms that's a good touch. All of A and B have been spent you're left with only C. And this is called a limiting excess reaction. Now there's another type of reaction and that is called, and that's a reaction in which A and B, there's actually some A and B, but there's also some C. And we don't know how much there is of each, but we do know that there is some of this and some of this, so there's not like only C or only A and B. So there's a combination and we just we call this combination an equilibrium. Yeah. So I would say that this is a good example of reverse explanation. We understand the concept of it, you know, we get it and then the label has been attached right at the end. So the next thing that I would expect is a little bit more of a technical definition and a technical explanation at this point because now we're ready. We understand the concept of equilibrium, we're ready to learn a little bit more in detail about equilibrium. You can use the terminology of equilibrium. You can use the terminology that you've already introduced at this point. The one additional thing that I would have done differently was when we're saying there's only A and B or C, I would have given an actual example just to make it a little bit more tangible. Now, why is this important to know? Well, I guess with equilibrium reactions all around us. - I just wanna point out how, you know, there's that pause in terms of like, well, why is this important to know? And that pause is representing the time taken to think about why is this actually important to know? And so this is the, you know, the beauty of the whole pothole technique is that forces you to think about the importance so often that it really tests you on whether you've just memorized something or whether you understand why it's important or not and how everything kind of fits together. So gaps in your understanding that you didn't pick up during the encoding stages with the whole BHS thing will be picked up in this revision and that's why retrieval practice such as whole part whole and that's why spacing is so important because there's inevitably gaps and we need to pick them up. All the chemical reactions that exist around us, they all, a lot of them, will actually exist in equilibrium. Meaning that there will be some products, sorry, some reactants and some products, and it's not gonna be clear cut as to only reactants or only products. And this is also really interesting because a lot of these reactions are present in everyday life, not only within your own body and whatnot, but also in the industry as well. I'm gonna talk about later. You know, these sort of things are really, really important. - It's really difficult to explain the importance without actually giving examples. So instead of saying, we'll talk about this later, I would have actually talked about it now. I would have talked about it right now. In fact, I would have done this whole spiel that's being done right now at the beginning, at the very beginning, before even introducing the word equilibrium, I would have said, okay, let's think about the applications of chemistry in the real world. We have reactions that occur inside our own body. We've got things that happen in industry. So for example, when this compound is being produced or this solution and we add bleach, and then how does that happen? When we create a vaccine, how does that happen? What about in our body? When we're breathing and that sort of stuff, how does that happen? Well, these are because there are different types of reactions. So this is a concept of something that's called equilibrium or something along that lines. I would have given these examples and real world applications to understand why equilibrium important in the first place. I would have actually done that first. Now this again it's a very simple sort of topic and we've been you know we've been talking for this video has been going for three um not this video but the video that we're watching together that's been going on for three and a half minutes and we've only just covered the idea of what is an equilibrium reaction so we're going at a pretty slow pace. Having said that understanding that example is gonna make it faster later on because we're not having to re-explain why things are constantly important. We sort of set the scene by saying look this is a topic talking about this and this is why it's important and we can break this up into understanding about this versus this and then we explain why this is important and this is important and then we give the examples and we give it a label and then we go into the specialized explanation and then when we start introducing terminology we can introduce terminology back to back to back very very quickly because we already have an understanding or the listener already has an understanding very deeply about the topic at a conceptual level and it just generally sort of you know makes sense. For essentially like understanding these types of reactions are really important for you know understanding how things work within our own body and within you know the industrial processes that use these types of reactions so that's why it's you know quite important to understand the whole idea of equilibrium which you know essentially is just studying all the types of reactions that have some reactants and some products. So within this topic there are several concepts. So the first concept that we're going to learn is systems. The second concept we're going to learn is... So here we go into an example of terminology crutching, right? So I can guarantee that these things that we're about to go into could have been explained without introducing the word systems first. We could have given the example and said this is how it works "Do you think this is important?" And then being like, "Okay, so this thing, "all of that stuff we talked about, "that is actually what we call systems." And then the next thing is called whatever. - Calculations. The third type of concept we're gonna learn about is this thing called Le Chatelier's principle. The fourth concept we're gonna talk about is this concept called Gibbs free energy and entropy. which is "Grips is one topic" in the IBIG. And yeah, I mean, that's basically the main sort of topics, sorry, concepts in this topic. So now we're going to talk about systems, the first concepts. So what is a system? Well, when we talk about equilibrium, we're talking about equilibrium in the context of some sort of reaction space. So when you know talking about the foils with that the atoms and stuff these atoms bouncing around and bumping to each other They have to react in a certain space which is known as the system Okay, so um Yeah, we you know I can see that We're about to go into the systems, and we're giving a good You know this this part that we've just listened to is good. You know it sounds good. There's a good Introduction in terms of why it's important, and we're gonna learn about why systems are important and why calculations are important through and I can I trust that he's gonna explain everything in full level of depth and all of that sort of stuff. The only thing is I would have given some kind of example or analogy to show why all of these things are important first and then I would have labeled them and then I would have gone into the systems in detail. So I would have said okay so let's think about some of these equilibrium reactions in context. So for example let's look at an industrial application when we're producing this particular substance. Not only do we have this particular environment in which the reaction is occurring, we're increasing temperature or increasing whatever or adding more reagent is going to change the outcome but we also need to be able to calculate that we also need to be able to measure that so we're not wasting money we're not wasting time we're not getting it wrong or if it's a different type of application it's not life-threatening or dangerous so we need to be able to get this right and fine tune what goes on inside this environment and we need to in order to do these calculations we need to understand some of the principles behind how the We can actually break it up into these three, note three, because as I'm explaining I'm noticing that there's probably not four but three ways that we can break this based on shared reasons of importance. There are three main ways that we can break up an equilibrium reaction and consider them. First is the systems. The system is basically the environment in which the reaction is taking place and the reagents themselves. And the second part is being able to predict and measure and calculate that which is the Calculations aspect and the final thing are the principles involved in the equilibrium reaction and we're specifically going to be talking about something called Le Chatelier's principle and Gibbs free energy and entropy so we'll start with the systems so remember now I've laid it out. I've done the whole in terms of the explain the relevance I've anchored it in with terminology now boom just like that and now I'm ready to go in to do a more specialized explanation Just before I dive into the pot. I'm gonna go back to the hole so we're talking about systems now Going into the pot But remember that's important because this was the environment where the reaction is all taking place This is the information about the reaction itself the reagents that are being used and all of that sort of stuff So I'm free. I'm just hitching back onto the hole just just as a short reminder And then I'll go back and say so systems can be characterized by blah blah and this is what is involved and here's what and then I'm gonna explain everything I need to explain about systems and at the end of that I'll say okay so that was systems now remember the other part of this was being able to do with the calculations so let's talk about calculations now calculations involves well and I'm gonna explain everything that I need to explain about calculations once I've explained all about calculations and I'll say so remember we covered systems which was about this and we've covered calculations which is about this. But remember, in order to even do these calculations and to understand the system, we need to understand the principles of equilibrium reactions fundamentally themselves. And there are two that we talked about. The first one, let's just tell you is, we'll talk about that one first. What this says is, and then I'll explain all of that, and then we'll say, okay, so that was the first of two. The second one was this, and then I'll talk about, you know, Gibbs free energy and entropy. And we'll talk about all of that. And then I come back, so I'd say, all right, so now that we understand the principles, we can see how it all comes together. Let's have a look at some other examples where this comes into play. Boom, done. Just like that, right? So constantly relating it back to the whole, relating it back to the big picture, and always seeing opportunities for reverse explanation. So now that I've dissected a couple, you should have a feel for when there's terminology crutching. Now, you can't always avoid terminology crutching, but you can most of the time. And it's about being keenly aware of it and being attentive to it so that you do avoid it when you need to. -네.