So I'm now going to teach you about this revision technique and before you bust yourselves out of curiosity, it's called the whole part whole teaching strategy. It's called the whole part whole and I'm going to teach you this soon. But in order to make sense of this a little bit, I want to talk about this idea of good teacher dependency. So it's really common for students to say, I find it really to learn a new topic because my teacher was good. There's this good teacher dependency. And saying subjects where your teacher doesn't happen to be good, was purely a luck based thing. You just wouldn't do as well in. And that's obviously not a great position to be in. But here's the interesting thing. Having a good teacher can actually be a bad thing. Having a good teacher can be a bad thing. So there are studies that are done where they've looked at students And they said, okay, they asked the student, how good do you think your professor was? Okay, let's just give them a hand. How good do you think your professor is? And then some students will say, this professor is amazing. They make me feel that this topic is enjoyable, it's interesting, they make the course really manageable. The subject is, you know, I find it much easier to work through, they just make it really easy for me to understand. And then some students, they're saying, oh, my professor is terrible. They make it so boring and it's tedious and it's so confusing the way that they teach it and I just don't understand it. It makes the course really difficult for me and I don't enjoy it. I don't enjoy it, okay? And that's what they say. So who do you think is gonna do better if they sit a test? Who do you think is gonna do better if they sit a test? Well, as you might expect, the people that had a good teacher, they do better. They consistently will outperform. Now, here's the interesting thing. What we find also consistently is that given a bit of time, when the information starts becoming more advanced and more challenging, the students who had the bad teacher actually are the ones that outperformed consistently. And the students who had the good teacher end up doing worse than the other students. Why is that? It's not that the professor got worse. It's not that the teacher got worse. In fact, when you do the rating again, they say that they're still great. They say the same thing. They still say the course was great, but their test results are worse. The test results are actually worse. And the reason is because when you have a good teacher, You don't need to figure it out yourself. And so when you're first learning something, the information is relatively basic and you don't need to figure out yourself, which is why you do well. So you do good in the short term. However, the students who are the bad teacher, they actually need to develop the skills to manage the difficulty. And they get to develop these skills when it's easy. When it's easy. So that means that by the time they're doing the advanced stuff, they still think their professor or their teacher sucks. However, these are the students that develop the skills. They learn how to manage that difficulty. They learn how to navigate. They learn how to think about this problem by themselves without needing the teacher. Whereas the students over here, these students, they never learned the skill. And so now for the first time, they need to learn the skill, but now the information is advanced. So they're having to develop the skill and the content is harder, which is why they do worse. So good teacher dependency is actually when your results are reflective of how good your teacher was or how naturally interesting you find the topic. And that's a sign, basically it's really a very clear sign of a low-level learner. learners do not have good teacher dependency. It's sort of impossible because high level learners are primarily in control of their learning. The teacher is an adjunct to that. Whereas good teacher dependency obviously as it says in the word dependency, the students are dependent on the teacher to make the subject easier for them. So the idea is we actually want to become our best teacher. We want to develop the ability to teach ourselves in the best possible way. And that's what this is. This is what the whole part whole teaching model is. Whole part whole teaching model. And the whole part whole strategy, initially taught by someone called Malcolm Knowles, is the gold standard on how to teach effectively. It's designed based on how students like to learn. So if you do this yourself, you can teach yourself as good as the best possible teacher could teach it, right? It's like magic, okay? But you're developing the skill. So you get the good teacher, which is yourself, and you get the skill, because you're being the good teacher, and it's great. Now, the interesting thing here is that, what I find is that the students that are achieving really, really highly, when they use the whole pot, whole technique, they find it very difficult. And what does it mean if it's difficult? It means that it's effective, okay? And they find a lot of benefit from it. So students that are already achieving in the top 1%, when they use this technique, they consistently will always struggle the first time. To the point where if you do this technique and you find it easy, there is an overwhelming chance that you actually did wrong. So it's relatively advanced, but again, I think you're ready to handle this. Honestly, it's actually not advanced. It's just advanced for people that have no initiation into learning how to learn, but for people that know how to learn, it's not actually that hard to do, to be totally honest. So let me illustrate what the Ho-Part-Ho is, and it's kind of in the name. The idea of the Ho-Part-Ho is that with normal revision, as we've mentioned, we're only testing on isolated parts of blooms. So we're testing on applying a certain fact or analyzing different concepts with each other, recalling details or writing out lists or something. We're testing on relatively isolated parts of blooms. The whole part hole is one of the only techniques that tests on all levels. It tests on all six levels of bloom taxonomy simultaneously. So you can see that this will be extremely time efficient because you are testing your mastery of knowledge at six different levels at the same time. Which sounds crazy. But compared to that, the technique actually is relatively more straightforward. It's a technique that revolves around you just teaching it to someone else. You're teaching it. You're teaching the technique to another, another person. And that person could actually just be imaginary. In fact, sometimes most of the time, it's actually better for the person to be imaginary because if you teach a friend, your friend already knows stuff about the topic. And so you end up skipping certain explanations because you assume that they might already know it, where they wouldn't ask you certain questions. An imaginary student that you're teaching, there you can assume they don't know anything about it. And so it's actually better to do it for an imaginary student. So it's actually teaching the topic out loud. However, if you've tried teaching before, and you might think that it's effective, it's very different to how most people teach. And this is the thing, is that just because you've tried teaching, whether you found it effective or not, it's not really relevant, because the whole part, whole technique, is a very specific way of teaching. And the devil's in the details here, because that way of teaching is where all the value is. Compared to just teaching it like you normally might versus teaching it through the whole pothole technique, it's very, very different. So because of the fact that exams test you at every single level, or almost every single, it depends on the difficulty of your exam, but exams tend to test you on the spectrum of this. Being able to revise the entire spectrum in one go is very effective and obviously highly relevant. So that's kind of the theory behind how the Ho-Pot-Ho works. It's a teaching technique, you use it for an imaginary student that tests you on six levels of Bloom's Taxonomy simultaneously. And we're now gonna go through the exact method that you need to use in order to use the Ho-Pot-Ho method effectively. And we'll go through some examples as well. And you can give it a go and realize that it's number one, very difficult to do. And number two, once you start doing it well, you find the gaps in your knowledge very, very quickly. [Piazza del Comune] Смотрите продолжение в 3 .5.