The final reason why people don't tend to learn a lot of these techniques correctly is because of what we call selective learning.

So as you go through the program, you'll notice that there are a lot of techniques.

And in fact, some people get to the end of fundamentals and say they didn't really learn much but there are a lot of techniques there.

You have to go through it very carefully.

Selective learning is when someone will look at something and they will decide that they are not going to practice that because they make a judgment that it's not relevant for them.

And this could be due to a number of reasons.

The first reason, which is quite strange but I've noticed this quite commonly, is that sometimes someone will go through and learn about a technique and because they've never heard of this technique before, they think this is not relevant to them.

It's sometimes because they're looking for something, they have a kind of already existing belief about how long it takes.

They're not sure what they're learning is meant to be.

And therefore, when they're going through, they're kind of just trying to confirm that their idea is valid.

So anything that isn't talking about what they think is sort of disregarded and anything that does say what they think is kind of anchored onto.

That's very dangerous and actually extremely illogical because you don't know what you don't know.

If you're joining this because you wanted to gain this expertise, then it's just not a smart decision to ignore the expertise.

I don't really know another way to explain that.

It's just I feel it's just really obvious.

Don't ignore the advice that you paid for.

So don't go through and just disregard things because it doesn't fit the mode of what you already thought.

And don't disregard things because you've never heard of it.

Maybe the reason you haven't heard of it is because of just the fact that it's not common and maybe that's the thing that you need.

All of the techniques that we teach, every single one has been field tested.

We don't teach anything that's only theory.

We never teach anything that is not common.

That is only in the research.

Nothing makes it into the course unless there's been extensive testing with real students and real authentic environments where we know that it consistently produces success.

Holding accountability for the advice that I give is something that I put on a pedestal.

So you can trust that the techniques that you're going to learn and have already learned are ones that we know work in the real world, in real world environments, not like the perfect artificial labs.

The reason that selective learning is such an issue is because, especially in the earlier stages, the techniques that you learn in the early stages are very rarely going to be the final version of the technique that you learn.

And in many cases, the techniques that you learn, the fundamentals are component techniques of something that becomes a composite technique.

So a component technique is an example of a component technique.

A component technique is a technique that in itself is not complete.

However, it doesn't mean that it's useless.

A component technique can in itself be a technique that produces a specific outcome, like a note-taking technique or a technique for you to use in lectures or in class or in meetings.

This is stuff that you can use and you can get an immediate benefit from.

The reason we call it a component is because it doesn't integrate fully with all the other techniques that are there.

It's a full effect of what it could produce.

Component techniques can come together in some weird sort of digimon combining polymerization sort of thing to create a composite technique.

A composite technique is, as it sounds, a composite.

So it means that it's comprised of multiple component techniques.

They're more advanced techniques.

They're all taught in the growth phases and beyond.

So if you want to be able to use a composite technique, you need to have mastery over each of its components.

The reason selective learning is relevant here is because it's not going to be clear to you what techniques are components and how it integrates with other techniques because it's frankly extremely complicated to try to explain it for every single technique.

So in the fundamentals, 95% of every component technique is a component technique.

So if you're going to be able to do a lot of things in a single course, you need to have mastery over it.

So if you're going to be able to do a lot of things in a single course, you need to have mastery over it.

So if you're going to be able to do a lot of things in a single course, you need to have mastery over it.

So if you're going to be able to do a lot of things in a single course, you need to have mastery over it.

So if you're going to be able to do a lot of things in a single course, you need to have mastery over it.

So if you're going to be able to do a lot of things in a single course, you need to have mastery over it.

So if you're going to be able to do a lot of things in a single course, you need to have mastery over it. it's going to be necessary for a later stage, especially if it's something that you're not already fairly good at or you're not using.

It's extremely important that for new techniques that you're not already using that you practice those because those are much more likely to be core component techniques later on.

Now, in some cases, certain techniques legitimately won't be relevant to your particular scenario.

For example, if you never attend classes or lectures and all of your learning is purely through written material, then the techniques for what you do in class are not going to be techniques that are directly relevant.

But the catch is actually that there are methods of thinking in, for example, in that example, the in-class techniques that we teach and fundamentals, there are methods of thinking that you would need to practice in order to use more advanced techniques later on.

So, if you're thinking about doing something that you're not really good at, then you're going to need to practice those techniques.

So, if you're thinking about doing something that you're not really good at, then you're going to need to practice those techniques later on.

So, if you're thinking about doing something that you're not really good at, then you're going to need to practice those techniques later on.

So, if you're thinking about doing something that you're not really good at, then you're going fairly unique, then sure, you can let us know.

But the blanket rule would just be, just learn everything that we teach you.

Please do not skip things, especially things in terms of how to approach the course.

Remember, these are the things that I spent years figuring out that made the success rate of people learning this go from less than 1% to over 80%.

Thank you.