Based on your results, it seems that you are currently unchained.

And that's actually a good place to be.

Unchained means that your main limitation is a fixed mindset.

Specifically, this means that you're likely to be averse to failure and making mistakes, and you probably aren't clear how you can turn mistakes into learning opportunities.

Now, ironically, I guess, even though we say it's unchained, it means that currently you are chained by the self-limiting beliefs, and the goal is to become unchained.

However, what we found is that people that are unchained, once they make that mindset shift, can see some of the most rapid, disproportionate growth and benefit out of any other learner archetype.

What that means is your future is looking bright, especially now that you know that the thing that holds you back the most is your mindset.

Let me explain how that works.

Mindset is our ability to engage with experimentation, and that experimentation is a necessary ingredient for learning new skills and growing.

If we have a fixed mindset, we are reluctant to invest our time and energy and sacrifice it for experimentation.

It can make us feel uncertain, insecure.

In some cases, we might find that the idea of failing even attacks us personally in our sense of identity.

We can have our self-esteem tied to achieving certain outcomes.

So ironically, it's almost like we care so much about the outcome that we stop ourselves from achieving the outcome.

We're paralyzed by the fear.

And so the solution to that is rather simple, actually.

We just need to understand how we can learn from mistakes and then have some experience learning from them.

Once we learn from the mistakes and we know how we can tackle mistakes confidently, Once we learn from the mistakes and we know how we can tackle mistakes confidently, Once we learn from the mistakes and we know how we can tackle mistakes confidently, Once we learn from the mistakes and we know how we can tackle mistakes confidently, Once we learn from the mistakes and we know how we can tackle mistakes confidently, Once we learn from the mistakes and we know how we can tackle mistakes confidently, Once we learn from the mistakes and we know how we can tackle mistakes confidently, Once we learn from the mistakes and we know how we can tackle mistakes confidently, that anxiety and fear can slowly dissolve away.

The important thing is to recognize the impact that our mindset has on us, which means that we can focus our attention on developing that.

Once we develop that, we can become unchained.

But when we fail to recognize that, then we can try to develop new techniques and methods and work harder and spend more time and sacrifice more.

And at the end of the day, it just seems like it's not enough.

And our results are inconsistent and then it's stressful.

And it's full of anxiety.

And that's because we're not addressing the thing that's holding us back the most.

I also want to point out that you're not alone.

In fact, you're far from it.

Most of the learners that we have worked with have been unchained.

And probably the most phenomenal learners that we've ever worked with have also been unchained, at least to start with.

So we've got a lot of experience working with unchained learners.

And there is a path that is paved there for you that's been tested, that's been walked on by thousands of other learners before you that we know helps people achieve success.

And you, now armed with this information, you have taken the first step on that path and your future is looking bright, as bright as that light, which is really bright.

So the next step for you to walk on this path is to read the rest of the report, learn a little bit more about the different dimensions and follow through with our recommendations.

Thank you.