Here is a list of the techniques that you can do to prevent procrastination.

See which of these techniques you're not using and try them out.

Most of the things will be taught again later in the course and more advanced versions of it.

This is just a list to kind of get you started.

When you feel like procrastinating, make a list of tasks.

Breaking down an abstract task into smaller steps can make it seem a lot more doable, naturally reducing your urge to procrastinate.

Set yourself up.

This means put away those distracting tabs, those windows on your computer, put your phone on silent, put it away and also start to load up your work or get out your textbooks.

You don't actually have to go and do it.

You can set all of it up and then pack it up again and go back to procrastinating.

But just by doing this, you may feel inclined to get some work done and might actually end up doing it.

You can do this step by step, closing each tab at a time and you can just focus only on doing this very, very slowly.

Get started beforehand.

Allow those completionist and perfectionist tendencies to fight off that procrastination for you.

Get started on some work the night before, even if it's just a few minutes.

The point isn't to do it to a good standard, but the next day, knowing that you have this unfinished piece of work can be enough for you to get started instead of putting it off.

Even if it's just a little, an unfinished piece of work is always easier to get started than starting on something completely fresh and new.

Group up and find some work.

Find some friends to create a focus session.

And sometimes that social pressure can actually be a good thing to get you going.

And the last one is to aim for your personal best.

Sometimes our sense of perfectionism can get in the way of us even getting started.

We feel that if we can't do it perfectly, then we won't want to get started at all.

Instead of aiming for perfect, aim for your personal best.

Whether that mean the best usage of this technique that you're learning, the best effort that you've put into something or the best time taken.

Whatever it is, aim for a PB.

You can even be creative.

If you're creative in trying to figure out what different types of personal best you want to be aiming for, you know, work doesn't always have to be a drag.

We can make it more of a game to make it more fun.

Okay, so this is just a super quick introduction into some of these techniques.

We'll continue to develop these and work on them as we go through the course.

Thank you.