(Kuş sesleri) Your cue for procrastinating might be something like seeing the YouTube icon or seeing a notification on your phone. It might be even as simple as a stray thought passing by that was related to something you procrastinate with. So for example, if your main procrastination is that you play a lot of online video games and you see a drawing, let's say, of someone who's wearing clothing that looks very similar to your video game character. That could be the cue. And studies that are done on cues show that the cue can be an enormous range. It could be very, very specific. For example, seeing the YouTube icon will be very specific. Seeing a recommended video on your feed is very specific. But it can also be very vague. and that it could simply be the same color as something that you procrastinate with. Or, when we look at studies done on smoking, so smoking can be considered as a habit as well. When we look at this, we can see that simply seeing a car or truck drive past, which has the exact same color of red, or similar, as the top of the cigarette packet, This can be enough of a cue to trigger the response. So, the cue is the thing that the stimulus that our brain takes in, and then the response is the actual bad habit, or if we want to put a good habit, the good habit. So, let's go down the trend of a bad habit still. The response here might be actually, you know, watching the videos, okay, or playing the games, or getting distracted on your phone, or talking to your friends, or whatever it is. Now, I'm not saying that these are inherently bad things, you know. I love watching YouTube, believe me. I love playing games. I would be feel disabled with my phone sometimes. And I love talking with my friends. But it's about when you do these. You want to do these at the right time, obviously. So I'm not saying that these are bad. It's just that they're bad when you're not in control of it. When it is controlling you, right? So we want to make sure that we're not getting this response at a time where we don't want the response to occur. So this is the thing here, the response is the thing that's actually bothering us. This is the thing that we want to be able to control. However, the thing that creates a response is the cue. And studies done on this show that the time between the cue and the response being activated is only as short as 0.2 seconds. Which means that between the time of seeing the YouTube algorithm and the thought entering your head and the craving for wanting to watch the video being created is only 0.2 seconds. So within this time we can actually start getting a craving being created. So people with the smoking for example, people might see this red color on the top of the or they'll see a color a car or a poster that's similar to this. Within 0.2 seconds they have a craving for smoking. And what that means is that it's actually very difficult to figure out what the cues are. Because you might not associate seeing a car with feeling like smoking. You'll be walking along the side of the road, see a car and suddenly want a cigarette. And then by the time you realize you're reaching for a cigarette, that car is down the road. And you wouldn't even associate that the craving came from this cue. And actually it's the same with things like procrastination or neuroticism. We might have certain triggers that make us feel anxious, that make us feel worried or have panic that stress us out or make us procrastinate. Things that make us feel lazy or not be bothered doing things. These emotions might come as a response to a cue that we're not even aware of because we're usually surrounded by these cues. So the thing that makes you anxious might be seeing your exam schedule or seeing a poster for the university you want to enter or seeing some An ad for like a medical TV show if you want to be a doctor and you're stressed about entering medical school The things that make you procrastinate they may be seeing your bed seeing a chair that you sit on every time you play a game Seeing a headset hanging from your computer seeing the YouTube icon, like I've said. These are things that you would, your eyes might glance at, and in such a short period of time, creates this craving that we're not even aware of it. And this is one of the breakthroughs in sort of modern neuroscience research, is in understanding the anatomy of a habit, because it's allowed us to actually treat issues like smoking addiction or other addictions, or even in terms of mental health or procrastination, a lot more effectively, because we're not just trying to control the response, we can actually start controlling the cue as well. And we can use this to our advantage to create good cues. So we might say that if we are eating healthy, then what cues us to eat healthy might be seeing that there are fruits and veggies on our bench or dining table, they're easily accessible. That's seeing that we have our study material is already on our desk, and that cues us to think about studying. Okay, so this we've used examples of bad habits, but it's exactly the same for good habits. We have cues that make us think about doing good habits, and the response would be to do that good habit, and we can actually control that. Now, there's another aspect of this, which is that there is something that reinforces the response, and that reinforcement is what's called conditioning. And when I say reinforce, it's like this. Imagine every time you watched YouTube, someone came and poked you with a needle. You probably wouldn't end up watching too much YouTube, because even though you've got a craving, every time you watch it, you get like shocked or poked with something. And so this reinforcement wouldn't occur. You would actually get reinforced negatively to not do that. And it's kind of like training a dog or something. Every time it does something good, you positively reinforce it. Every time it does something bad, you negatively reinforce it. So that it learns that bad things have a negative consequence and a good thing has a positive consequence. Well, actually, this phenomenon is something that's called classical conditioning. Or otherwise known as Pavlovian conditioning. And that's nothing to do with Pavlova, which is a dessert cake type thing made from egg whites. Pavlovian conditioning is based on the scientist Pavlov, who did the original experiments, or at least the most famous experiments on this, regarding what was called Pavlov's dogs. And what Pavlov did with these dogs was that he would ring a bell, and when the bell rings, he would call the dogs, and the dogs would come, and he'd give the dogs their food. And because they're dogs, they really love food. And so that makes them happy. Okay? So he rings the bell, the dogs get fed, the dogs feel happy. Now, what they would eventually associate themselves with is that they would understand that ringing the bell means that they get fed, which means that they're happy. What Pavlov found was that eventually ringing the bell caused the dogs to salivate. Because even though there might not be any food, ringing the bell was so associated with being fed that the dogs would start salivating. And in fact, when the food was taken away, very sad for the dogs, when purely the bell was run, the dogs would still have the exact same response and actually feel, well, presumably feel hungry or happy. So what that says is that we can actually condition ourselves to feel or respond a certain way based on almost random cues that we give ourselves or random reinforcement. So let's say that every time we study, So study is the good habit that we want to create, but studying doesn't normally make us feel good. But however, something else like reading, reading a particular book, part of a series that you really enjoy, reading does make us feel happy. Well, what we can do is we can actually condition ourselves to associate studying with reading for studying with being happy through classical conditioning. Okay, it seems like magic and it almost is. It's like the closest thing to human psychology magic that there is. It just works so powerfully because it's really quite a primitive part of our brain. So almost all species with the level of sentience are susceptible to being classically conditioned. And it's so powerful that even if you're aware of it, you can't actually fight against it. So it's really not like anything else in human psychology because we can be completely aware of what we are doing and we can try to avoid it and we still won't be able to avoid it. It's an incredibly powerful, deeply ingrained part of the way that our brain works. So here's what we could do is before studying, we might read part of a book or after studying, we read a book. And let's say that we only read after we do our study. So step one has to happen before step two. That means we know after studying, this is the same as kind of the bell. It's like this thing that doesn't mean anything to us, so we don't really find good necessarily. But following the bell is the thing that we enjoy. So following study, we put it with reading, which is something that we enjoy. Over time, the studying would actually make us feel the same enjoyment as the reading does. It sounds like a lie, it sounds unreal, it sounds like it's too good to be true, but it legitimately is how it works. And eventually you don't even need the reading in there. You literally will just start associating the studying with the same happiness that you feel. It's just how that works. And we can do that negatively as well. So if there's something that we are doing that we don't want to do, but that makes us happy. If we pin that against something that we don't like, then eventually we stop liking that. So one of the things that is often used for helping alcoholics with their addiction is if they are addicted to alcohol and that makes them happy, then what you do is you give this person actually a medication, which makes them feel extremely bad as a chemical reaction. makes them extremely nauseous and it just makes them feel terrible after they drink. And so what happens is that they eventually associate drinking with this negative feeling and then they just stop drinking because even when they're off the medication, they have associated, they've been conditioned to associate the alcohol with this negative feeling and therefore they will stop drinking and it's a relatively effective way to stop alcoholism and alcoholism is a very difficult thing to treat. So we can do this for negative habits, You can do this for positive habits. And the peer-to-peer system is what is built on this anatomy of a habit. We are basically hacking into the cue, the response, and the conditioning step to create a system where we're hitting all the different angles of this to create the high-performance habits that we wanted to.