- It's another checkpoint video. And if you're at the end of base camp, then it's both easy and difficult to know if you're ready to move on. Because by the end of base camp, we need to have a very strong level-- [AUDIO OUT] of mastery over pretty much every single technique that you've learned so far. Base camp is the time for maximum consolidation. So at this point, we should be extremely, extremely proficient with ultra high level of consistent accuracy with our aim, shoot and skin step. We should be able to pull it off for pretty much any topic very, very easily. It should be our new norm. We should be able to do an aim, shoot cycle fast enough and proficiently enough that we can hip shot. And we should be able to do a hip shot that produces a mind map that is at least the same level of quality as you doing a dedicated aim and shoot step. The skin step is dependent on your topic and your level of prior knowledge of that topic and just your overall proficiency. You may have lots of things that you can skin on and we'll evaluate if your technique is good enough based on what we see after your skin. So after your hip shot, you should get something that is relatively good and relatively straightforward. It's logical, it follows importance-based chunking, it has good logic layers, sorry, layers of learning. But at that point, you may decide that you don't even need to skin it, and that depends on the topic, or again, your prior level of knowledge or expertise, and you might look at it and think, "This is actually good enough, "and there's nothing more that I need to do with this." Or it could be a really, really massive topic that you're doing, or one that's very complicated or very new, in which case, yes, you'd go and then skin it, and that should, again, give you very, very consistently high quality results. In terms of results, you should be feeling that you are starting to have massive, extremely significant, very tangible time efficiency saves. You should be able to do a pre-study or batch study of your material incredibly quickly, much faster than is normally taught to you in a formal curriculum. You should have extremely high level of retention, and you should have a very, very high level of knowledge mastery. Your results that you should be getting if you're applying these techniques should be, if not the top, near the top grey band of what you're getting, and you should be able to achieve that, again, consistently across a range of different subjects. And I know that's a high bar to set, but if you're doing the techniques correctly, that should be around about where you feel. On the non-academic side of things, you should have a very good mastery over your basic time management, task management, especially prioritization frameworks. You should have good control over your environment, removing distractions and setting up your entire sort of system of productivity in terms of your environment that you're working in, as well as the adjuncts that you're using, as well as the frameworks and the techniques that you employ. That system should be pretty fluid and you should be able to use that on a daily basis without being too stressed about it. And of course, needless to say, we should really be fully adopting that experimental growth mindset wherever we can. And it's not possible to have a growth mindset on literally every single aspect all at once, especially if you didn't come from that kind of background. But as long as we're aware of it, we're working on it, we've achieved a good level of growth mindset for at least skills development and our academic side of things. And we may be working on developing growth mindset for some other things that we haven't maybe prioritized yet. Base camp's also a really great time to go back to the fundamentals to make sure that we are doing all of the fundamentals. Space interleave retrieval, all of these things we should have a lot of experience with now. We should be very, very, very comfortable with this. Ultimately, we should be at a point where we are very, very happy with our techniques and the results that we are getting in terms of time efficiency, knowledge mastery, and pure ability to actually retrieve it should be very, very, very high. And if you're not at that level, then I would recommend that you reach out to get help because something will need to be adjusted and tweaked and it may be too complicated for you to work out by yourself. If you've already been doing good co-ops and you haven't figured it out yet and your co-op is of accurate technique, then you probably need to speak to an expert to really get a deeper diagnosis. Now, unlike other checkpoints, in this checkpoint, if you haven't achieved all of this, none of that is necessarily a red flag. You can continue moving on if you want to because the techniques after here are not so much related to the core encoding process. It's either re-encoding with advanced retrieval techniques, we're introducing a few other things for memorization aids, flashcard management, exam techniques. And you can actually work on those simultaneously as well. But I would say that you shouldn't move on until you feel like you have achieved a very significant level of improvement And and considerable level of mastery over those techniques It may not be quite at the level that I've talked about just now But it should be close at least close and if it's not at least close then it's probably best to stay because There is a couple other variations to this that I can assume that you are able to do that perfectly with total mastery Otherwise, you actually will not be able to use the system that we teach you at all. Like there's a hundred percent chance of failure because the minimum prerequisite requirement is high, high level of competency over essentially the full beyond system, including pretty high level of competency with your hip shot. That's your checkpoint. Assess for yourself whether you think that you're ready to move on, reach out for help if you need to, and if you're pretty close to that level or you are at that level, then carry on through, make that strong push, get to the summit, and at the end of summit, you can check yourself through a Beyond Summit exam that you'll unlock to see if you actually have learned the skills to the appropriate level. And for those of you that after finishing base camp will go and unlock a core status to give back to others and help the community along, Those of you who opt to do that, you will also be able to have an expert session so that we can actually make sure that your technique is good and we'll help you because you're the type of person that wants to help others and supporting that community is what we're all about. So if you're interested in that, make sure you go ahead and book that in as soon as you've finished your Base Camp training. And the final thing, because you are at the end of Base Camp and presuming you have followed the course as it was intended to be used, and therefore presuming you have this huge improvement your study skills and you've seen the light and you know what it's like to be so efficient. And if I've been able to show you this whole new world that has been hopefully life-changing, then I would appreciate if you go and take some time, just a couple minutes, to leave us a review. It goes a long way, especially when not many people know about this type of thing and they're looking at what we're saying that we can offer and they may simply does not believe us. I'm sure you know exactly what that feels and obviously words coming from people that have actually gone through it that have felt the changes and the transformation in themselves is more powerful than really anything that I could say. So if you can take some time to do that, we'd really appreciate it. Otherwise I'll see you in the next stage.