Now, this is where we want to be aiming towards by the time we're at the end of Base Camp. Alright, this is how you know that you're comfortable and confident enough with the technique to move forward. What we're going to be doing is teaching you the first variation of the Bear Hunter system, Which is extremely exciting because most people aren't even able to do the basic Bear Hunter system. Not because it's necessarily very difficult, but because they just don't persevere enough to work through those challenges. But you, you my friend, have put in that work and you've put your trust and faith in the system and probably already started seeing some really great results. So, now you deserve the reward which is the first Bear Hunter System variation which is called the "Hip Shot" variation. So, let's have a look at what that is and how it differs from the standard Bear Hunter System that you've already been using. Now, even though I'm teaching you this, I don't expect that you'll be able to do this straight away. I don't expect you'll be able to do this straight away. In fact, I'd rather you don't try to do it straight away. I'm going to give you examples and schedules in terms of how you can use the normal standard Bear Hunter system. Practice that. Use that. Once the normal Bear Hunter system feels comfortable and confident and you have no more issues with that, then move forward into the hip shot variation. And once you're comfortable with that, then you can keep on climbing to the rest of the summit. But this hip shot variation is definitely a level up. So if you give it a go and you find that it's too much, it's overwhelming, you can't do it, relax. Don't worry. That's perfectly normal. Once you develop the skills a little bit more and get a bit more comfortable, this too will feel effortless. So let's have a look at what the hip shot variation really is. So in the standard bear hunter system, we have the aim, shoot and skin steps like this. We should be very familiar with this by now. But just in case, let's just reiterate, the aim step creates curiosity, the shoot step fulfills that curiosity through a process of information collection and then organizing it, those Russian dolls, the organizing, boxes inside boxes, organization inside organization, that chunking process, really focusing on building those relationships and giving meaning to the information. That's what we mean here, right? We're talking about relationships here. And we do that through applying it, through analyzing it. Right? And we are able to do all of this because the AIM step has given us the right focus to direct our mind towards through the questions that we ask. Primarily, the "why is it important?" and then the "how does it relate?" questions. Okay? As well as the necessary "what actually is it?" And then after we've done the shoot, we then do the evaluation, which is at higher level on Bloom's taxonomy. You remember it was that level five where we're actually weighing and we're critiquing. So now our understanding of relationships is extremely high at the end of the skin step. This first part activates problem solving, curiosity, fulfilling that curiosity, and remember we called this inquiry-based learning. The second part is finding patterns. Both aspects of the cave theory have been fulfilled, and what this does is it really drives our mastery of knowledge all the way up. The tools of our trade to do this, to aim, we have questions. These questions are some of the best, but also other questions, other questions that you may have thought of. And then we use our understanding of layers of learning and order control to learn the right information at the right time. And we can create based on that, a mind map that perfectly reflects our understanding, as well as memorization tools to cover all the other stuff that we just need to learn, which again, I will teach you moving forward in the further camps, I'll teach you these memorization tools. But for now, you can just use whatever memorization tool you're comfortable with. you could use flash cards. If you do these steps right, you shouldn't have too many flash cards. It shouldn't be as overwhelming. And then in the skin step, we turn these mind maps into grind maps to make sure that we've really extracted as much learning as we can out of it. I mean, we went through all the effort to aim and shoot. We need to skin it afterwards as well. Otherwise, it's just a resource that's left untapped. So that's the current Bear Hunter system that we're at. This should all be very familiar to you. And I'm just doing a recap just in case you need to hear it one more time. But we're not learning anything new here, right? So what is the hip shot variation? The hip shot variation is the way that we can make this faster. Is how we can make it faster. Now if you're not familiar with the term hip shot, a hip shot is when you shoot from the hip. hold it up to your eye and look down the barrel of the gun. You don't hold it up to your eye and look down the sights. Okay? Instead, what you do is you shoot directly from the hip. Okay? And you often see cowboys doing this where they've got a holster, right? And a quick draw, and they will just shoot directly from the hip. So that's what a hip shot is. And the hip shot is faster. And what it means is that we are doing the aim and the shoot step sort of simultaneously. So it becomes hip shot and then skin. So the way that this works is that even though I said simultaneous, It's not truly simultaneous. What we're actually gonna be doing is just switching back and forth between these much more quickly. So in the standard variation of the Bear Hunter system, in our aim step, what we would do is we'd collect all of our keywords and then we'd create a series of problems and questions that spark our curiosity based on those keywords. And now we would have a comprehensive list of keyword as questions, keyword, as well as questions. And these questions would ask in relation to each other. They would look at links that make it relate to each other. They would ask questions about why it's important, you know, good quality questions. And then what we do next is we'd go to our shoot step. And in our shoot step, we go through these questions and we answer them. The hip shot just simplifies this a little bit. What we do in the hip shot instead is that we aim in the general direction of where we want to shoot first. So the first steps are still relatively similar. What we're going to do is we're going to collect keywords. But the difference is that we're only going to collect the most important keywords. we're gonna straight away filter it so that we're only looking at the most important keywords or the most important themes or concepts or whatever it is, just the most obvious things, the ones that shoot out to you the most. Now, a beginner struggles with this because they're not sure exactly what is most important. But you should be able to get a better sense for this because you should know that the most important ones are the ones that are at layer one. They're the ones that build that fundamental logic. This is what's gonna form that backbone, aka the structure. So we're picking out these ones and we're kind of ignoring the rest. Based on those, we're going to take the first keyword, so for example, this one, And we're immediately going to ask ourselves the questions in our head. So we are just mentally asking questions, and they're still the same high quality questions, okay? They're still the same high quality questions. We're still asking questions about what is it? We're asking why is it important? And we're asking, how does it relate to this thing, or this thing, or this thing, or this thing, or this thing, or all of it? How does it relate to X, Y, and Z? So we're still asking these questions. The difference is that we're doing this part mentally, okay? It's in our head. and we are straight away going to shoot from here. We're gonna look at the resources that we've got available. We're gonna look through our course guides. We might watch some videos. We could rely on good old Google to search for the answer. And based on that, the answers that we get, we're going to start creating our mind map. Okay, we're gonna start creating our mind map. And again, the mind map that you create will be pretty messy, there'll be connections going everywhere. But don't worry because after that, we're gonna skin it like we normally would, and we're gonna turn it into a beautiful, nicely flowing, super well-connected mind map, or rather a super well-connected grind map, okay? So this step here, all of this, is exactly the same. The difference is that we do some of the stuff that we'd normally write down, we do it mentally. So what we did initially with the original aim and shoot, this is to train our brain. We're training our brain to be able to create that curiosity, okay? Once our brain is able to do this, we can sort of now skip that step a bit and instead let our brain create that curiosity needing to write everything down and we can just do it in our head. Okay, so again, we're going through the keywords, but the most important ones only. We're going to create the questions in our mind and we're going to go ahead and straight away just answer it. Asking the question, what is it? We're going to answer that question straight away. Chuck that on our mind map. Why is it important? Answer that and then put it on our mind map. How does it relate? Answer that and then put it on our mind map. So there is a seamless flow from this point through to here Okay, and then we go back to here And we just continue the cycle How does it relate? Why is it important? Put it on our mind map. Then we take the next point Okay, might be the next keyword in our list here. We do the same thing ask these questions, and then we're gonna put it on our mind map. But now, because there's already stuff on our mind map from the first time we did it, we can relate it and build that spatial awareness as we go. So what happens here is that we're relying on the fact that if you're already good enough at the basic technique, you should have a bit more experience with building the mind map. Okay, so you should be a little bit better in terms of spatial organization. You should be a little bit better at sort of planning your space so that you're not kind of getting everything crammed together. You should be better in terms of thinking in terms of relationships. You should be better at all the expressing ideas, you know, good note-taking principles, the VP, ref, RE. You should be more proficient at this stuff so that we can kind of do it all in one go. We don't have to slow down and do each step individually. We should kind of be able to do it automatically. So we are building the mind map as we go, okay? So questions, answering it, putting it down, questions, answering it, putting it down, and then relating it to what's already on the mind map. Getting the next point, questions, answering that, putting it down, and then relating it to what's already on the mind map. And that's something that you can't forget. You have to be sure that you're always making sure that you keep relating it, okay? This, how does it relate to X, Y, Z? We still need to make sure that we're prioritizing relationships here, okay? Relationships are still the number one priority. We can't get lazy on this. And this is why I would rather, you know, give it a go, see how you find it. But if you find it's too difficult, just go back to the original, just go back to the original, okay? Even just the original, this works. It works great. It works better than any technique that you might've used it before, okay? So if you're finding it difficult, just go back to the original. And when you find that it's comfortable and confident, then give the hip shot variation a go, but make sure that you're not getting lazy, okay? Don't get lazy with your relationships. Never put relationships second. Never just start getting down into the memorization. Never compromise on your layers of learning. Never compromise on your order control, okay? So if you feel like you're compromising on any of these things, okay? one, two, three, any of these aspects, you're not ready. You need to go back and keep doing the standard variation, and then you can try the hip shot variation, okay? So by doing this, we are saving time. We're saving time because the aim step is happening in our mind, and we're able to build the backbone as we go, And then seamlessly, as we continue this cycle of constant, and this cycle here, this is the inquiry-based learning cycle, right? Problems over here, answering it over here, and just expressing it in notes over here, right? So it's just problem, answer, problem, answer, inquiry-based learning. So this is an inquiry-based learning cycle. It's exactly the same. The only difference is that we're doing a few things in our head, and instead of doing all of this at once, We're doing it bit by bit because we're relying on the fact that we'll still be able to connect the big picture together. But again, remember, remember, remember, beginners and even intermediate learners, they're not able to keep building and relating it to the big picture because they get too sucked into just answering questions. And instead of it being really relating to each other in the mind map, it simply becomes an information dump, a one directional information dump, but it can't be. this needs to come back to help you think of more questions that are even better. So this truly should feel like a process of very free exploration and discovery of the topic. We're really discovering the topic then building this mind map more organically. Okay. And what will happen is that as you keep going, initially your keywords are very basic. And so your main things on your mind map are also very basic, okay? So they're all kind of like down at this bottom level. But as you learn more and more, your questions will start getting more and more advanced. Okay, and then we're in the second level. And so what happens is that you'll just keep spiraling upwards into things that are more and more detailed. Okay, so we'll start at layer one, layer two, layer three, and we'll get to layer four. We'll get through all the layers of learning through this cycle. It's just that the questions and things you write down at the beginning will end up being more basic and as you keep doing the cycle it gets more and more and more detailed until you end up just finishing the topic. So this is the hip shot variation. The skin part is exactly the same. The skin part, this is no change. So don't worry about that. So this mind map that you create, it will be messy. It will definitely be messy. If I do the hip shot variation, it's, you know, most of the time it's still relatively messy and you do get better at it. If the topic is easy enough, sometimes you don't really need to do the skin step because it's clean enough, but most of the time you'll need to redo it anyway just to make it cleaner and get to that higher level of learning, higher mastery at the evaluate stage. Okay, so that's the hip shot variation and that's still doing the exact same thing here. we're doing is we're actually just grouping this step into one step and just speeding things up a little bit and you can see how doing it this way would make things much faster. So remember this is the goal. This hip shot variation is the goal for you to reach at the end of this base cap. Don't worry if you're not able to completely reach it, even if you're able to just get a glimmer, a taste of what it's like on an easy subject, that's probably still fine. You can keep working on it. It's something that does take consistent practice and you know you really need to you need to know this stuff very very very very well. You know, five ticks. Very very well to be able to do the hip shot variation without making mistakes. So again, don't be impatient. Be kind to yourself. Keep trying. keep making mistakes, keep growing, keep learning, and carry on to get to the summit.