- Let's take a bit of a detour to touch on some of the things, from a mindset point of view, that every successful person must have. In fact, it's so important that companies will spend millions, if not hundreds of millions of dollars investing and teaching their employees and top executives these types of mindset because that's just how important it is. So the first thing that we're going to go over is that thing that we touched on briefly before which was the idea of loss aversion. Hopefully you still remember what that was all about. idea that we value protecting what we already have and not losing it more than the prospect of gaining something moving forward into the future. But some people are incredibly afraid of this loss to an irrational degree. Instead of just needing two times the gain in order to compensate for the loss, some Some people need 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 times the gain in order for it to be worth them taking the risk of loss. And generally speaking, even then, they may still be on the fence. So this is when loss aversion gets to an extreme point where it's really impacting their opportunities and really it's impacting the opportunities to the point where they're not even really able to access any opportunities. So you can imagine, these people with this level of loss aversion, this level of fear of failure, are extremely restricted. Their growth potential is extremely capped. And the dangerous thing is that people usually do not know they have this mindset until it's already too late. In high school, even in early university, this mindset is often hidden because there is no need for this to have come out and shown themselves. Now, a trained eye can actually pick this out pretty easily, even among students. But for a student themselves, they often wouldn't feel the negative effect of it. - --to the point where it's that heavily impactful for their life. And they may even think that it's just normal because the people around them are like that. But it doesn't mean that it's good. And in my experience, for top achieving students, especially ones that are in incredibly competitive curriculums that have lots of ranking and comparison between others, I often find that at least half of my students suffer from this mindset. And remember, suffering from this mindset is extremely limiting in terms of how much impact can have on that person's life. The opportunities for this person are incredibly capped to the point where I would say that if this is not resolved and overcome, then this person has no chance of true success. Now, that might sound incredibly scary to you. However, don't worry, because the thing is, most people are completely capable of fixing this. However, they do not, because they don't know it's an issue until it's already too late. It starts becoming an issue more and more when people are in their early, mid and late 20s. And in their 30s, by then their life has usually already changed course. In a very significant way. So if you are watching or listening to this and you are younger than that, you have plenty of opportunity to fix it. But remember, if you don't fix it, then you'll naturally just travel down that path. So you're in a great position right now because I'm just gonna teach you exactly what we're talking about and why this is something that almost every single student needs to have in their mind. (soft music) (phone ringing) Because even if this mindset doesn't apply to you all the time, almost always, myself included, this type of mindset comes out in certain parts of life. Okay, so let's see what the mindset I'm talking about is. You may have already been able to guess this if you're clued up in this space. We're talking about the idea of fixed mindset versus growth mindset, okay? So fixed mindset versus growth mindset. Now you may have heard of this before, but don't skip because I think a lot of people don't really realize how meaningful and impactful this actually is. And they can tend to sort of underestimate it or just skip past it. I remember having a conversation with a student even just a couple of weeks ago where they were showing clear symptoms of a fixed mindset. And then I told them that that was the issue and how to solve it. And then they said, "Oh, I've heard about this before." Yet for them, they were completely unable to process that that was the problem that they were facing. Part of it is because you're not really aware what you're doing as objectively as someone that's watching you. But another big part is that most people don't understand these concepts of fixed and gross mindset to this level of detail. Okay, so what is a fixed mindset? People that have a fixed mindset will say things like this. They say, I can't do it. They say, I can't learn that way. It's just not how my brain works. They'll say things like, I'm not smart enough. This is what a fixed mindset is. The fixed mindset sees the world and their ability as fixed. That's what they're seeing as fixed. They say, "These are the cards that I've been dealt, "and therefore, that's what I've got to work with." This is a fixed mindset. A growth mindset says, "These are the cards that I've been dealt, "and that is what I start with." They see that this is purely the first couple steps in growth, whereas the fixed mindset sees that this is not changeable. It is not modifiable. They can't do anything about it. It's outside of their control. Purely it's just not how it is. It's fixed. So these statements, you can see they're all fixed. I can't do it. There's a fixation on this idea that they just can't. I just can't do it. Or I can't learn this way. See, it's very fixed. It's just not how my brain works. As if the way the brain works is fixed, which from a scientific point of view is extremely wrong. Or I'm just not smart enough. Okay, very fixed. It's a statement that shows that there isn't a possibility for change. I'm just not smart enough. I just can't learn this way. It's just not how my brain works. I just can't do it. So these are the statements that someone with a fixed mindset would have. People with a fixed mindset tend to see themselves as someone who is better than others in some cases or is worse than others. And you're thinking, how can they be both better than others or worse than others? And the thing is that it's not about whether they're better or worse. It's about the idea that they see themselves as in their sense of identity. They sense themselves and align themselves with the idea of being better than or worse than another person. So this is something that is about comparing. Their sense of identity is about being better than someone else. If they're not better than someone else, then they don't feel good. Or they feel bad because they're worse than someone else. Okay, this is the fixed mindset. So what does a growth mindset sound like instead? All right, well, someone with a growth mindset would not really care. They see themselves as someone who can learn from others, who is better or worse. than others. And their sense of identity and self-worth is not based on that. Someone with a fixed mindset thinks that they are someone who is right. They associate themselves with being someone who is correct. Someone with a growth mindset sees themselves as someone who tries, who puts in effort, who isn't concerned with being right or wrong. They're concerned with having pride. Someone who has a fixed mindset thinks that they have the answers. Someone with a growth mindset looks to have questions. They challenge themselves. Someone with a fixed mindset sees themselves as someone who is high achieving or is low achieving. It's simply how it is. Someone with a growth mindset sees that their achievement is actually secondary to who they are in terms of their skills, their level of growth, their level of experience, even pure luck, their level of effort, and they understand that achievement can go up and down. But it doesn't have any relationship with their sense of self-worth or value. They don't identify with achievement. The achievement is just something else. But this is what they are focused on. Someone with a growth mindset might see themselves as someone who just doesn't fail. Whereas someone with a growth mindset sees themselves as someone who seeks failure because failure brings growth, failure brings learning, they embrace failure. They're not afraid of the failure and they don't think that the failure dictates their own sense of worth. So this is what fixed mindset looks like. And you can see how detrimental it could be versus how much more mature and open the growth mindset is. So people with the growth mindset wouldn't say, "I can't do it." They might say, "I can't do it yet." Or they might say, "I don't know how to do it at the moment." They wouldn't say, "I can't learn that way. It's just not how my brain works." They would say, "I'll give it a go." Okay? They would say, "Let's see." Sorry, there should be a space there. They wouldn't say, "I'm not smart enough." They would say, if it's about their grades, they might say, "I didn't do well." It's just a statement of fact. Okay? "I didn't do well." Or I could try harder. Or I don't know the skills required to do better. Do you see, it's not about I'm a certain way. It's just how it is. It's not fixed. It's about growth. All these statements, it's about current situation versus where you could be. It doesn't lock them. And then, therefore, the behavior of someone with a fixed mindset, because they're so afraid of failure, their ego is very fragile. Their ego is very fragile. Because in order for them to feel good, they have to be right. They can't be wrong. They have to have the answers. They have to succeed. They can't fail. They need to have the best outcome. So the behavior is that they would avoid challenges that they aren't confident about. They avoid challenges. They're insecure or defensive about being wrong. When they're wrong, they feel like their sense of who they are is being challenged. They feel like they're not to prove themselves to other people by saying, "I'm good enough. This is who I am." And they might feel inadequate if they don't prove themselves to other people. Their sense of self-worth is based on their superficial achievements or their outcomes, like grades, or their position in a race, or their rank on a test. And they tend to do easier things that they're more comfortable or more confident in, even There's no learning to be had. Even if that's at the sacrifice of growth, even if that's at the sacrifice of learning, because at least that way, their chance of success is higher. But instead, what are they giving up? They're giving up opportunity. They're giving up growth. They're giving up personal development. They're giving up challenges that give them new skills. they're giving up true confidence. They're giving up stable sense of security. And therefore, when life gets harder for them, you know, maybe early stages, they're doing well, but then when life suddenly gets harder, they just never develop the skills. And so this is when they fail. And this, this is called someone who is an early peeker. And you might've heard this before, peaking early. Someone who peaks early, oh, I peaked in primary school, I peaked in intermediate school, or I peaked in high school. You don't wanna be an early peaker. You wanna be someone who steadily gets better and better and better. Your life goes on and your skills and you as a person continue to grow. An early peaker, they peak early because over here, of course they did well, 'cause it's easy. Over here, of course they did badly, because it's hard. And they didn't have the skills to take them through there, because they were so averse to challenges, so averse to the insecurity of potentially failing, that they never really developed those skills. And then, you know, this is what their life looks like. That's quite sad. So what about someone with a growth mindset? How do they behave? Well, you might be able to guess. They don't avoid challenges. They seek challenges. Okay? It doesn't matter if they're gonna fail or not. They seek challenges because what they seek is the growth. They seek the learning. They see the failure as a win because they get to learn something. Instead of being insecure defensive about being wrong, they're inquisitive. They're open. They wanna find where they're wrong because that allows them to improve themselves. That allows them to fill in the gaps and become truly secure. They don't care about the feeling of security. They care about truly being the person that has the right information or has their gaps filled. Even if it means that they have to admit that they're wrong. They're not out to prove themselves to others. They're not even out to prove themselves to themselves. They're simply people that have nothing to prove. They do what they do. They act the way they act. They try their best not because they're proving themselves to anyone, but because that's the person that they see themselves as. That's the sense of identity. They see themselves as, "I'm a person who will try my best. I'm someone who always tries. They don't value their self-worth based on achievements or outcomes. Their self-worth is based on them living the way that they want to live. Based on living with this identity. Based on the effort that they put in. Based on how they respond to challenges. Based on how they adapt. how they can grow, how they fulfill their potential. They might base their self-worth on how kind they are, even. Things that have to do with their sense of identity. And they don't do easier things because they're more comfortable or confident in it. In fact, they stay away from easier things, okay? They are challenge seeking. Because again, that challenge brings growth and that challenge brings new opportunities and skills to develop. So obviously these people will develop much more skills and they are the ones that continue to do better and better and better as time goes on. But where does this fixed mindset actually come from? Why is this so common? It's extremely common, like I've mentioned. So where does the fixed mindset actually come from? So what we found when we do certain studies, okay, we've done studies with children, and we know that the fixed mindset is a part of personality. From scientific psychological point of view, personality is something that happens when you're very young, okay? It develops over a long time, but the influences are when you're very young. So when we look at children, we can see where it really originates from, right? So when we take a group of children, what the studies have done is they split these children in half, where they gave them a test, they both got the same test, and at the end of the day, the result that they got, one group, they said, "Congratulations, well done, "Well done on your mark or result." The other group, they said, "Congratulations, well done on your effort." They said, "Well done for trying your best." And so what these children learned, here, these children learned that, "Oh, I will get praised if I have a good outcome." These children learned, "I will get praised if I try my best, if I put in effort." Do you see where it comes from now? So over time, what happens is that this mindset gets reinforced and they start seeing themselves as someone who has certain outcome. These people see themselves as people that do their best. Now the thing is, remember, early in life, How hard is primary school? It's pretty easy, right? So early in life, things are easy. Therefore, the outcome tends to be high. So these people associate themselves with having a high outcome. Their sense of identity is based on achieving a high outcome. Anything that could potentially sacrifice this outcome is dangerous. It's something that they wanna avoid. In fact, so much so that later, If these students did poorly on a test, these students were much more likely to lie about their result to other people, just so that they wouldn't be seen as someone who didn't do well, okay? They were much more likely to lie. And I'd have to look at the original study and I'll link one of the most famous studies on this for you to check out because it's very interesting. but it was quite a significant number of more people lied in this group than in this. I don't think any people in this group actually lied, but people in this group were likely to lie about their results just so that they wouldn't look bad. And I think you know people like this, right? And hey, you're doing this course, maybe by yourself right now, you can be honest. Maybe you're this type of person, okay? But it's okay. You have the opportunity to change yourself to become this type of person. So what happens when we now give them another test, test number two? And let's say that this test is easy or it's the same level of difficulty, okay? What do you think these groups, the fixed mindset children would do? As you might expect, they did it and they felt good. What do you think the growth mindset people did? As you might expect, They didn't want to. They didn't see the point, okay, of doing it when there's nothing to learn. They already know how to do it. They've already done it. Why do it again? Okay, now what about if we give them another test and this test is difficult? As you might expect, this group doesn't want to do it and this group only wants to do that. They don't want to do this one. They don't want to do this one. They only want to do this one. Okay, so you can see where that comes from. But it's very, you know, it's very subtle and you can't really blame your parents or your teachers for it really because they probably didn't know. I mean if your kid comes home with a report card and it says they got, you know, 90% then you're gonna say, "Oh, well done, you know, good job for getting 90%. You did so well." Seems natural, right? But what does that teach the kid? It teaches them that the outcome was important. Instead, parents who say, "Hey, even if you failed, you did your best. Good on you for trying hard." And if they got a great result, but they didn't even try, then they'd say, "Whatever about your result, I don't even care about that. You didn't even try. I'm disappointed in you." So there is a cultural difference here. This type of thinking, this type of praise, this type of outcome obsession is much more common in Asian cultures. This is much more of a Western culture. And so we often find that people with a growth mindset, especially if you come from a diverse country where there are a lot of different ethnic groups and lots of different cultures where you live, you often find that there are much more Western raised children who have a growth mindset and much more Asian culture raised children with a fixed mindset. And actually, if you look even at immigrants, the children of immigrants who have parents who adopted Western ideals, their children are more likely to have a gross mindset, even if they were from a different ethnic background. Okay, so it's pretty powerful. That's where the fixed mindset actually comes from. But you can't really blame anyone for it. It's one of those things that just happens. It's extremely common. But remember, the most important thing here, the most important thing is we can change. We can fix this. We can get better. We can be in the growth mindset. And remember what I said before, is that it's not binary. It's not one or zero. It's sometimes we are fixed. Sometimes we're in growth. Sometimes we're in growth. Sometimes we're fixed, okay? It varies, it depends, it changes. I will be fixed mindset in certain aspects of my life and gross mindset completely in other aspects of my life. I'm always trying to be in the growth mindset more because I'm aware of all the dangers that it creates and all the opportunities that it sacrifices. And I mean, this, like, let's be honest here, like continuing on with a fixed mindset and not fixing it, even though you know that it's gonna be a problem, that's number one, the most fixed mindset behavior to have. And number two, it's just, it's a formula for failure. Right? So I'm always aware of where I'm fixed and I try to keep an eye out for where I'm fixed and I'm always finding new things that I'm fixed on. And I'm always trying to change that into a growth mindset. So how do we change that? How do we change that into a growth mindset? All right, well, there's a few things that we can do. Okay, a few solutions that we have available to us. One of the things that we can do is to start measuring performance rather than outcomes. Okay, not outcomes, what we want is performance. So what is performance? Okay, well, let's think about what an outcome is. Okay, an outcome could be getting an A+ or getting a 99 ATAR score. Okay, that might be the outcome. But, you know, obviously, you don't just get that by magic. You don't just find a lamp, rub it, genie pops up, and then you say, "Give me a 99 ATAR." That's not how it happens, right? You don't pray. It's not like Leo this year is destined by their horoscope to get an I-9 ATAR. It's about having a lot of things contribute to that. You need to have the skills, right? You need to put in the work, right? There's a number of steps required. So when we focus on performance, we don't focus on this outcome because this outcome is merely a symptom. Okay, it's merely a symptom, right? If you've got the common cold, right? And your eyes are like sore, and then you're like, you're sniffly, and you're sneezing, okay? Sneezing. You don't say, "I'm suffering from "my sore eye, drippy nose, sneeze disease." Okay, and focusing on the sore eye, sniffy nose, sneeze, doesn't change anything. You say you've got a cold, because a cold is a thing, okay? The common cold, or flu, or whatever it is. Again, by the way, they're not the same thing, but you know. So you'd say maybe you've got the flu, and that's what's causing it, right? So the high score, the outcome is just a result. It's just a result. It can't happen by magic. We know this, but we don't think about it often. So we don't focus on the outcome. We focus on the performance required to get there. We focus on the work that's done. We focus on the skills we need to develop. Now here's a slightly more subtle way that we look at outcomes. Studying for 12 hours this week. That could be a goal, but what does that mean? 12 hours this week is actually an outcome. 12 hours is a symptom of how you spend your time. What you want is not 12 hours this week. What you want is you wanna make sure that you cover a certain topic at 90% retention by the end of that week. That's what you want. So what does it take to get there? Does it take 12 hours of study? Maybe, maybe not. But it's about time. It's also about the process, right? Your study skills. Hopefully you're very aware of this by now. So when we focus on performance instead of outcomes, we're saying, what does it take to get to the outcome? Not obsessing about the outcome itself, but rather thinking, what does it take? and then creating plans and measuring the processes instead. And we're gonna go into this a little bit more in depth later. What's the other thing that we can do? All right, we can focus on the processes that lead to the performance, right? So when we say performance, we're talking about what does it take to get there? We know that if we're trying to achieve a certain goal, If this is where the goal is, we need to achieve this, this, this, and this first in order to achieve this. We can't just jump straight to here. So that's what we're looking at. This is our performance. Right? And the processes, the processes are all the things that you're going to need to do on a daily basis to get here. All right? These are the things that you're doing on a daily basis. (traffic) - Daily/weekly, these are the things you're actually doing. This is your mechanism of success. What are you actually going to do to allow you to achieve those results? So if we need to work on the skills, what skills? How are we gonna work on the skills? What are you going to do to develop the skills? What type of work are you going to do? How are you going to work? You need to develop this process. What are you going to do to develop that process? How are you going to do it? Okay, we're being more clear and specific about the thing that actually makes a difference. If we know that to achieve this, we need this and we need this, then we need to start creating processes that allow us to achieve this and this, rather than just smashing our head against a wall repeatedly to try to get here without even thinking about what it takes to get there. And finally, we need to calibrate our perception of loss. And what I mean here is we need to make sure that we're very clear about what is a perceived loss versus what is a true loss. And we've covered this before. I remember covering this before, where we talked about the fact that you might think that you're losing something, but actually what you might be losing in reality is much greater. So for example, the time spent into learning the BeoHunter system. Some people foolishly might say, "That's a waste of time. "That's the loss, waste of time." Actually, what you're losing is the true loss. The true loss is a loss of opportunity. You're not able to make an investment. On that, you're losing an investment. And while this leads to one of those infinite negative spirals that just gets worse and worse and worse over time, this is something that will allow you to grow over time. So it's about being very clear about what is it that I'm really losing. So often students will go through the Bear Hunter system and try it, and they'll message and say, "It's too hard, Justin, I can't do this, I just can't do it, it's too hard for me, it's too hard. This is not working for me." What does that sound like? Well, that sounds very fixed mindset, right? I can't do it. I just can't do this. It's not working. It's just not how my brain works. I'm just not smart enough to do that. This is all very fixed mindset speak. So instead of that, think, what's your alternative here? You either don't try and inevitably lose eventually, probably when the stakes are much higher and losing means a lot more, or you invest your time and reap the rewards. And you know that it's gonna be a safe bet because of the fact that we're teaching it to you in a course, right? And we wouldn't teach you something that's not a safe bet. So this is what fixed mindset really is. This is where fixed mindset comes from. And so now you need to be very clear in yourself, okay? You need to be very clear on a few things. Number one, you need to be very clear. Your sense of self-worth, what are you basing that on? Are you basing that on outcomes? Are you basing that on comparison? Or are you basing that on effort? And are you basing that on your processes? Number two. Do you feel good when you have good outcomes? Or do you feel good when you put in the effort? Number three. Do you seek comfort through ease? Or do you seek growth through challenge? Be aware of this. You might see it pop up in different parts of your life. You might see it pop up in the realm of relationships with other people. Maybe your relationship with your family. You might have a fixed mindset about that. You might have a fixed mindset about your culture. You might have a fixed mindset about your study, obviously, or sports, an instrument you play, hobbies you have even. Where do you have fixed mindsets? And wherever you do, we need to work to overcome them. Okay? Now, we're going to look at one of the most common manifestations of fixed mindset, this basically enormous fear of failure. One of the huge consequences that this leads to, which is the idea of neuroticism. Okay, so let's explore the idea of neuroticism a little bit more because it's a symptom of fixed mindset, which causes a lot of problems for a lot of people. And I personally struggled with this a bit when I was younger. And I know exactly how it feels to fear failure so much that you are never really getting anything done, right? Paralysis by analysis. Let's have a look at neuroticism, whether it affects you and how we can overcome that.