(ambient music) - So we looked at focus training as one of the first, you know, biggest things that's gonna help you to increase your, well, obviously your focus, but also allows you to turn on and off certain parts of your brain in terms of what you give attention to. So that's in terms of being able to help you manage emotions and this is something that you should do, because, see, like I said, I've been doing this for over a decade and I plan on doing this for probably the rest of my life. (ambient music) that's just how impactful this is for me. It's literally life-changing. I don't say that lightly. So that's focus training. There's another thing that we can do, which is called chain analysis, or rather it's behavioral chain analysis. So chain analysis, what that really means is that we're just figuring out all the different steps along any type of process. Behavioral chain analysis is thinking, why did we behave or act in the way that we did, and why did we feel that? So, you know, there's always like a trigger, an event, something, someone says something to you, something happens in your day, you get a flat tire, whatever it is. And then some stuff happens in your brain, and then you have a response and various emotions associated with that. Now, if you just have a response and emotions, okay, you can kind of control your response, but you can't really control your emotions there, okay, not as easily. So it's really hard to create a solution. But if we know all the steps in here that led to this, then maybe we can actually get some more data so that we can create another solution out of it. And this is behavioral chain analysis as a technique that is actually used in psychotherapy, which is the form of therapy that is used to help treat mental illnesses. This is what clinical psychologists will go through. It's part of a extremely well research-based group techniques called Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, otherwise called CBT. You may have already heard of this. It's not a secret at all. It's very, very well known. So behavioral chain analysis is probably if you were to go to a clinical psychologist to talk to them about your feeling of neuroticism or anxiety, they'd probably do this with you. And you can actually do it for yourself. So we've attached a worksheet that you can work through to do this behavioral chain analysis for yourself. And what that will allow you to derive is more data, basically. You're basically knowing yourself more, which is more data. It's more information. And based on that, you can actually start thinking of different types of solutions so that you can avoid having this response and emotion in the first place. And actually you can use this behavioral chain analysis for literally any behavior. It doesn't have to be neuroticism. It can be any type of behavior that you want to change. It's hard to change it just by trying, but if you've got lots of data and information about yourself to work with, like a psychologist would, like a professional would, if they were to help you. If anyone were to come to me for private coaching for this, I would do the same thing. I would need as much information as possible to make sure that the solution that we create has the highest chance of succeeding. So focus training and chain analysis, two very great tools to help manage neuroticism. (끝)