(Aksiy They're usually quite fast. They are quick to come on, and they are usually reactive. Okay? They're usually reactive, which means that something happens to you, and then we react to that as an emotion. So it becomes something that's quite hard to change. It's quite hard to just change your emotions directly. It's not impossible, but it takes a lot of time, and it's very, very difficult. So emotions is hard to change. What's not hard to change is what triggers the emotion. So for example, if your best friend slaps you in the face, let's say that you feel pretty bad about that. It's hard to feel good about being slapped in the face, but you can stop yourself from being slapped in the face. So these are much easier to change. The triggers, the environments, the situations, the responses that we have to these situations and environments and triggers, in terms of what we do, our actions, our behaviors. So these are the things that we're in control of, okay? And we wanna shift the focus, at least when it comes to prevention, we wanna shift the focus so that our emotions become a little bit more tangible and we understand them a little bit more. So it's not just an emotion occurring out of nowhere, it's actually emotion that was triggered by something. You know, there's actually something associated because if we just try to blindly change the emotion, we don't really end up getting anywhere. And the cool thing is, the way that our brain works and the way emotions work, is that it's not a one-way street. It's not always something happens to you and the emotion occurs. We know that when we feel a certain way, we are more likely to act a certain way as well. So there's a two-way relationship here, in that the way that we act influences the way that we feel, and the way that we feel influences the way that we act. So by changing our actions and our behaviors, it is actually possible to change our emotions, okay? So a great example of this is that there is actually a very strong link between the act physically of smiling and the feeling of happiness and contentment. So what that means is that actually, you can just not feel happy. If you smile and you genuinely try to smile, you will feel that you actually get a little bit happier. Maybe not a lot happier, but at least a little bit happier. And actually you can do this even if you're feeling sad inside. If you actually make the effort to smile, which is a bit of an awkward, it can be difficult when you're not feeling good to make yourself smile. When you actually genuinely try to smile, it actually creates an emotional response but because this is so closely linked to the emotion, and it actually can make you happier. So that's interesting little fact about, again, how we can kind of hack our own human psychology in order to be a better version of ourselves. So the first step for prevention, really, is gaining insight, okay? It's about gaining insight. That's what this is meant to represent. So prevention is all about knowing what to prevent. We can't prevent something that we don't even know anything about. We can't prevent a car accident if we don't know why the car accident's happening, who's driving, where it's happening, what it's colliding with. There's nothing for us to work with. We don't have anything here to work with if we just have the concept of the emotion. So we need to work on that first. And there is a three-step process here. The first is awareness. So awareness is meaning that we are aware of the emotions that we don't want. So we are aware of our emotions, and we are trying to be aware of what caused those emotions. Okay, now this is actually something that often slips under the radar. Most of the time, this link here, from the cause, the trigger, to the emotion, is extremely quick, very, very fast, can only be 0.2 seconds. So a lot of the time, we focus on the emotion, and we don't actually realize what causes it. So, we want to be aware of what causes it, because this is data for us. So, awareness means being aware of the emotions and being aware of what causes it. How can we be more aware of this? Well, there's a very simple thing that we can actually do, which is, number one, okay, number one, purely just trying to be more aware actually works. It's one of those times where literally just trying will make a difference. But a useful adjunct that we can use this is to have some kind of diary, or like a journal or something, okay? And this is not a masterpiece, okay? Like no one's gonna read this, okay? No one's gonna read this except for you. When I write my diaries and journals, it doesn't sound super formal. I'm not making like a work of art. It's not meant to be like ultra poetic or anything. It's literally just like, it's just on the page, okay? I start by writing like, today I did blah, blah, blah. Like I brush my teeth in the morning and then I went to work and I did this and this. Like it's very boring, it's dry. What it's doing is that it's forcing my brain to slow down because you're actually writing it. And don't type it out, actually write it because you actually want to be able to slow down. You don't wanna speed it up for yourself. You wanna slow down and by slowing down, it gives your brain more time to sort of mull over all the things. And then you can pick out saying, okay, then I felt a certain way And then, oh, then you can give yourself time to think, why did I think that way? And the very first time you do this, you might not get any insights. In fact, you probably won't. But if you keep doing this every day or at the end of every week, I recommend every day. If you do this at the end of every day, then over time, your brain is gonna realize, hey, at the end of today, I'm gonna be writing about my emotions. So therefore, I should pay more attention to my emotions. Okay, that's what's gonna happen, is that doing this trains your brain find this to be important, or these to be important. So it increases your awareness because you're giving it focus. And this process of writing down doesn't have to take very long. Sometimes it's five minutes or less. Sometimes if I really am into it, it might take 20 minutes, but it just depends. Okay? Now, the next part is that we wanna give it attention. We wanna give it attention. So what are we actually being attentive to? So there's a difference between being aware of something versus being attentive to it. Being aware of something simply means that there are these emotions that exist and sometimes you feel them. Being attentive to it means that while you are feeling the emotion, while you are feeling the emotion, you are actively trying to pay attention to how that emotion feels and where it comes from, okay? So what we're doing here is we're really just diving deeper. We're not just saying, oh, I'm gonna feel this and I feel it, therefore it's done. We're gonna say, okay, I feel it. Now I wanna dive deeper into that. What exactly am I feeling? Why exactly do I feel that? So it's an extension of this awareness phase. The awareness is a thing that allows us to pick up on it in the first place. The attention is what allows us to know it at a deeper level and collect more of this really important information here that we might otherwise miss. And again, the exact same thing that we do, this diary process, this journaling, this will help here. And then after that, then we go into the analysis. So what we're doing is we are really being very objective about this. We're turning what was over here quite an emotional experience, and over here, what we're doing is we're processing it a bit more objectively. We're going to pull it apart and we're going to turn it into a list. We're going to turn it into a list of cues, behaviors, and patterns. And this is something that we can do something about. Once we've identified this, now we can make a plan to prevent them. So let's say that being around a certain person always makes you feel pretty cruddy. That means that you can make a plan to be around that person less. Okay? It's as simple as that. So let's say that there's a certain type of, there's a certain thing that someone says to you and it doesn't make you feel very good. Then you can create a plan. If it's not possible to avoid that person, you can create a plan for how you're going to respond to that. Realizing that your response and your behavior can influence the way that you feel. Right? Remember, it's not a one-way street. So the way that we respond, the action we take, the way that we behave, when we feel a certain way, influences the way that we will feel. If instead we just sit there and soak about it or feel bad and just, you know, we just wallow, infinitely wallow, then all we'll do is infinitely wallow until our brain just like naturally sorts it out over time. But we don't really need to wait for that unless you really enjoy infinitely wallowing. So instead, what we can do is we can take control of that. If we weren't able to remove the trigger, if we weren't able to change the environment, if we found ourselves in that situation, we can at least change the way that we respond. And this is something we've always got control over, okay? And remember that. We always have control over the way that we can respond to that. And now I'm with the knowledge that the way that we respond actually has an effect on our emotions. Then that becomes a powerful weapon to be able to prevent this neurotic fixed mindset cycle because we can say, okay, next time someone says X, Y, Z to me that makes me feel not very good, I'm gonna respond with this thing, which I suspect is gonna make me feel better, okay? So it might be next time someone insults me, I'm going to respond. So if you were to respond to someone insulting you by violently assaulting them, that potentially is not actually gonna make you feel better and realistically will just make everything worse. So if you instead say, "Next time someone insults me, "I'm going to say, "thanks for your observation and then move on." Then that is activating parts of your brain that are involved with gratitude, okay? And it's allowing you to process it because it gives you a level of closure in order to move on. You don't need to feel really thankful like, "Oh, today was such a great day because I got insulted. I'm so thankful for this person for insulting me." It's not that you're saying, that's not the point. The point is that you're forcing yourself to think a certain way by controlling your response. Because the most important thing here is about how you feel. It's about how you feel. Who cares if you thanked someone when they didn't deserve to be thanked? If at the end of the day, that makes you feel better because you have used a positive aspect of psychology to hack into your mind to make yourself feel better, at the end of the day, who cares? You're the one that's happy. And they're probably feeling bad about insulting you because they just got thanked for insulting you and they're like, "Oh, maybe I shouldn't have said that." Okay? That's one example. That's one example. So the way that we respond influences our emotions. So this analysis step allows us to take all the information we got from this diary, okay? Take all the information from their awareness and attention and allows us to output it in terms of a list of things that we can avoid, prevent, do something about, and plan different types of responses. Because in the moment, it's very hard to think of the perfect response. But if you've already pre-planned this, that means that when the situation arises, we can just, boom, put it right in. We were ready. We were ready for the bad thing to happen to us, and now we're in control of that, okay? So that's what we can do to prevent some of these negative emotions associated with neuroticism in the first place. So let's take a quick example in terms of an exam that you might sit. What if I do wrong in the exam? What if blah blah blah? Okay, let's slow down. Why did I feel that way? Okay, I felt bad about my exam because I saw my exam schedule, which I keep pinned to my wall. All right, great. So we've identified a cue here, pinned to the wall. Let's take that down. Now we've removed a trigger. So does that still make us feel bad? Okay, maybe there's something else Maybe it's not because of the schedule anymore. That's reduced So I've cut down on my exam related stress by you know 10% because I'm not getting triggered every time I look at my wall and maybe there's another aspect of it Which is every time I study I start to panic because I don't feel like I know enough And there's not enough time Great, so the trigger here was studying. Can we remove studying? Probably we shouldn't. So that's not possible to remove the trigger. Can we remove the situation? The studying environment? Probably not. We can't. Can we change the environment to something that's more positive? Maybe. Maybe instead of studying in the same place that we always get stressed in, which might be library or at school, maybe we can study at a nice sunny cafe. Okay, maybe we can be in a place that we enjoy, like at a park or something and be studying so the environment can help us influence our psychology. And this is often something that I will do. In fact, I do this very, very often actually, is I change my environment to make myself feel a different way about something that I might not typically enjoy doing if I was stuck inside. So that's one aspect, okay? But the other aspect is, okay, what am I doing in response to my panic? After I panicked, let's say I started thinking about it over and over and over again, and it made the panic even worse. All right, so instead of thinking about it over and over and over again, what else could I do? When I panic, maybe I can write down my thoughts, because this is gonna allow me to slow down. And if I'm slowing down, it's gonna allow my thoughts to process a little bit better I've stopped myself from running into this spiral, this negative spiral and cycle of overthinking and ruminating on this, okay? So maybe that's my response. So next time I feel panicked, I'm gonna open my book, I'm gonna write down my thoughts to help me slow down. And this is how we would prevent that neuroticism because we have a planned response that could help and we are changing our environment. So we can control this, we can control this. And it's much harder to control the panic directly or the bad feeling directly. So this is how this cycle comes into play. (쾅)