[플랜닝] This is what we're planning to achieve. This could be your exam, this could be your ATAR, this could be a sporting goal, whatever it is. Okay, anything that you might feel neurotic about, something that you're uncertain about, that you don't want to fail. Okay, this is the thing that you're afraid of failing. Okay, now as I mentioned, obviously, in order to reach that goal, we need to hit certain milestones along the way, right? We need to hit these flags along the way. So these are what we call performance goals. These are performance goals. So those yellow flags represent performance goals. And then this represents an outcome goal. So as I mentioned, we wanna prioritize performance goals over outcome goals, because performance goals are more important. Why are they more important than the outcome goal? Because you can't get the outcome without going through the required performance. It's like, you're not gonna get a top 1% mark if you didn't study like the top 1%, learn the knowledge like the top 1%, prepare like the top 1%. So there's no point even thinking about the outcome goal, because remember the outcome goal is a symptom. It's a symptom, it's a consequence. It happens at the end. It's kind of like, there are those things called a Rube Goldberg machine. You might have heard of, you might have seen, even if you haven't heard of them, you've probably seen these before, a Rube Goldberg machine. It's one of those things where you flick a marble at the very top and it rolls down something and that activates a switch and that switch turns on a fan that blows a ball across a table and then that table rolls down a ramp and then that ramp tilts and then the ball rolls down another ramp to hit a domino, which hits a whatever, and then a shoe falls off, and then the shoe hits a vacuum cleaner, which sucks in a tennis ball, which whatever, you know? And then at the very end, it's like, it gets like a soccer ball inside a bin. Like, and that's the outcome. It's like, yes, yay, like we flicked this marble here, and then the soccer ball went inside the bin over here. That's called a Rube Goldberg machine. The outcome goal is the soccer ball in the bin. It's the final thing at the end of a Rube Goldberg machine. It's the outcome of all your performance goals. Okay, so that's what's most important here, is the performance goals. So we wanna make sure that we're actually breaking down our goal into performance goals. That's step number one. Numero uno is create performance goals. And this is really important because if you don't create the performance goals, then you don't actually know what the next best short or medium term goal is achieve. So the performance goals would be like, okay, well in order for me to get let's say a top 1% mark, if we're down here, we're just starting at the beginning, well first of all I need to know everything involved and getting that 1% so I need to understand my curriculum. Well let's say that's goal number one. Goal number one is understand my curriculum, okay, have a good understanding of my curriculum. After I've understood my curriculum, the next thing is to gain a very strong conceptual understanding. That's number two. After that, it's to memorize all the details, okay, and you know maybe do some practice exams. So if you've hit each of these and you know you'd make these goals a little bit lengthier, a bit more specific, right? We can use the good old smart goal setting, which I'll reference in the text below this video as well, just for your reference. We can use these smart goals to create performance goals that are the steps along the way. Okay, the steps along the way. Great. But we're not done yet. We actually now need to do something else with these performance goals, which is the crazy magical thing that I was telling you about before, which is actually called reverse goal setting. Reverse goal setting. So reverse goal setting says that instead of you thinking, "I'm here, I want to get to here, therefore I must do this, this, and this." It says, "You are here, you want to get to here, therefore you must have achieved this, which means you must have done this, which means you must have done this, which means right now you need to do this. So what's the difference between normal goal setting and reverse goal setting? When I do it in the diagram like this, it looks like it's just two different ways of achieving the exact same thing, but it's actually not, it's very different. When you think about where you are at right now and what you need to do to achieve the goal through conventional goal setting, you will often think about, you know, These ticks here, these are basically your performance objectives, performance goals. You'll think about what you need to have done by a certain amount of time. So if this is to get that top 1%, this might end up being, okay, well, I need to have studied all my material. So all material has been studied, okay? And then here, you might say that I have memorized everything. And then here, it might be practice exams. Okay, doesn't seem like anything's wrong with that. If we do a reverse go, we ask ourselves two different questions. The first question we ask is, what do we need? And number two is, how do we get there? Well, sometimes I like to think of it as, who gets there. And I really want to focus in on looking at it in terms of who gets there. So OK, someone that's studying at the top that receives a top 1% goal. The immediate next step before achieving a top 1% goal, what does that look like? What does it look like, the immediate step before achieving a top 1% goal? So if the top 1% is the symptom, then step before that could be consistently getting high marks in your practice exams. All right, so far it's exactly the same, right? So far it's the same. But now we ask the second question. We ask the question of, so how did we get to the point where we're consistently doing well in our exams? And who would get there? Well, the person that could do really well in exams The way that they would get there would be by knowing all your stuff obviously, but remember that's not a who, that's not a how, that's a what. So how do you get to doing consistently well in your exams? Well, you need to have good exam technique. You need to be calm, okay, and confident. We need to be able to have high recall. We need to have a great ability to apply our knowledge. So that's how. That's how. So now, who? Who would have great exam technique? The person who would have great exam technique is someone who developed great exam technique. The person who is calm and consistent is someone who has trained their ability to be calm under pressure. The person with high recall is someone who has studied in a way that allows them to apply and recall the information. So this is someone who has, again, trained that skill. Now we can see the difference between reverse ghost setting and normal ghost setting. Because at normal goal setting, often it's very easy to miss this part. But this is actually what we need to focus on. So the way that we look at it now is, in order for me to achieve well in my exams here, I need to have good exam technique, and to be calm and confident, I need to be able to recall the information, and I need to be able to apply it. In order for me to do this, I need to be able to train my skills here. So that actually needs to become a goal. becomes a goal. So what's the next step? Well before being great at the exams, what is it that I need to be able to do? Well I obviously need to know all my content, have the knowledge, so that's basically you know the same here, it's the same. I need to be able to know all my content, but not just know all my content, where would I be by this point in terms of my skills development? See that's different. Not only do I need to know my content but I need to have at least 70% of my exam technique. I need to have 70% of my confidence or calm exam training. I need to have at least 90% application based revision. So now you can see that this is becoming a lot more specific than what we had up here. So then we ask the same questions. Well how would we get the 70% exam technique? How would we get to here? How do we get to here? And who would be able to do that? And we can draw it back once again. So here what do we need? Well we need to go through and study the material. So again that's the same but now we also know that by this point we need to be 20% progressed throughout training. So here's the main thing. What's the difference between reverse goal setting and normal goal setting? Reverse goal setting places an emphasis on the skills that you need to develop that get you the result because we know and plenty of research is showing this that focusing on the result doesn't actually tend to get you the result. on the skills is much more likely to get you the result that you want. And this has been shown consistently across a number of different disciplines, is that people that focus too much on the result are less likely to achieve it than people that don't think about the result and focus more on the skills. So reverse goal setting means that we're really clear about what it takes to get to each of these goals here. If you're climbing a mountain, you need to have the skills to climb. You can't just say, "After this, I need to get here." If you don't have the skill to go from here to here, you're never going to get here. And that's the thing, is that reverse goal-setting says, "Before I get here, I need to be here." In order for me to have gotten here, I need to have the skill to get here, as well as having reached this point. So therefore, at this point, I need to be developing the skill to get up here, but to get here, I need to have had the skill to overcome this, which means here, I need to to be developing the skill to get here, which means here I need to be figuring out the, you know, starting my process of developing skills. So that means that we are focusing, okay, we're focusing our attention on developing the skills that naturally lead to the performance that we want. And that will allow us to smoothly and consistently go through. Whereas if you don't focus on the skills, you will just keep going and at a certain point, you'll hit a brick wall, and you'll realize you don't have the skills to go past this, and you'll get stressed, and you'll keep trying, and often if you're not trained to think like this, you won't think about your skills. You will still just keep trying again and again and again and again and again, and then you'll eventually either fail or you'll break through, but it will have taken much longer and it's much more stressful, okay? So proper planning means that we have confidence, okay? We've got confidence, not just because we know what we need to do, but because we know that we can do it because we are working on the skills that take us there. Just because you know that you need to win a race doesn't mean that you're confident that you can win it. But if you spent 100 days practicing your skills to race, you probably have a lot more confidence because you know you've got skills to back it up. And that's what reverse goal setting allows you to do. Now, could you just do that prospectively? Could you just start from here and then go that way? You could, but I found that it's often a lot harder to figure out how good your skills need to be by any certain point. Moving forward, it's much easier to think about where you need to get and then what the skills need to have been there and then what the skills need to have been before that and then what the skills need to have been before that and therefore, you know, what the skills need to be develop the skills, so what's the process that's going to allow us to develop the skill? And we plan that. So we actually actively plan the process, the steps that we need to take again on a daily, weekly basis in order for us to reach the correct skills development. And that means again, we have another layer of confidence because we're not just working on the skills, we're making sure that the plan in order for us to achieve these skills is all good. We're very confident in it. We say, "Okay, how do you know "that you're gonna be able to achieve this result?" The answer, "There's no way I can't achieve the results "'cause I'm gonna have the skills required to achieve it. "How do you know that? "Because I'm focusing my planning. "I'm making sure I get these skills no matter what." That's a huge difference between outcome goal setting, right? Probably already this is not a way that you've ever set your goals. And the final part is mindset planning. So mindset planning is something that's often overlooked, but it makes a big difference. So here's the thing, is that we know that in order for us to achieve this goal, in order for us to achieve this goal, it is going to be challenging. We know it's going to be challenging. In fact, if it wasn't challenging, we wouldn't even set this goal. We wouldn't even set the goal because it wouldn't be meaningful to us. It's because it's challenging that it's meaningful. So because of the fact that we know that it's challenging, we know that it's not going to be easy. Not going to be easy. Okay? You're like, okay, this is very obvious, Justin. Where are you taking this? Be patient. Therefore, while attempting to accomplish this goal, we are going to encounter difficulty and discomfort. it. Okay, now if you have a fixed mindset, how do people with a fixed mindset respond to difficulty and discomfort? Correct. They avoid it because there is a risk of failure. And so what people will often do is that they will say I want to achieve this goal. They are aware that it will be difficult, but they don't really think about what they are going to do when it becomes difficult. And so what happens in reality is that people will do it, they will find it's difficult, they will quit. Okay? And they will convince themselves that they're not quitting. They'll say, "Oh, I'm not quitting. I'm just taking a break. I'm just trying to find in another way, I think I don't need to do this. Same thing with the Bear Hunter system, right? We're saying, look, if you wanna be a top level student, you need to have an efficient studying technique, okay? And the Bear Hunter system is an efficient studying technique. And then we're saying, you do not have an efficient studying technique. Maybe not you directly, but generally people, the student, we're saying to the student, you don't have an efficient studying technique. And they're like, yes, I agree, I agree. I don't have an efficient study technique. Do you agree you need an efficient study technique? Yes, I agree. I agree I need that. Are you willing to work to get there? Yes, yes I am. Great, cool, let's do it. We're working to get there. Difficulty strikes. What does a student do? Do they say, oh, but I need to do it, so I'm gonna push through. Or, rather with a fixed mindset, what happens? Oh, maybe it is good enough. Maybe it is fine. Maybe I don't need to have an efficient study technique. This is what we hear. Frustratingly, year after year, hundreds of students always saying the same thing. At the beginning, they're like, "Yes, yes, yes, I need it. "It's good." Going through, it's like, "Oh, it's hard. "Maybe I don't really, "I don't think I can really do this. "I'm not sure if this is for me. "I'm just gonna do something else. "So I'm sure it's gonna be okay." Have you thought about it really being okay? In what way does it make sense for it to be okay? Usually the answer is, well, it's good enough for me right now. And so for you, looking at this statement, you should realize this means absolutely nothing because good enough right now often means not good enough later. So this is why we have so many students that we've dealt with here at iCanStudy. But there's so many students that we have seen who basically do this, and then two or three years later, they'll come back to us just full of regret. They are so desperate for help. They've already missed out on all the opportunities, and now they're just trying to not miss out on their second and third opportunities, because they realize that they should have just pushed through when it was difficult. And now it's even more difficult for them to push through. And sometimes the fixed mindset is so strong that they still will not push through that. And that's why this fixed mindset is so dangerous if we don't do something about it. So mindset planning means, okay, I understand that at a certain point, it's going to be difficult and uncomfortable. At that time, what will I do to allow me to navigate this discomfort? And if your answer is, I'm just gonna try harder, that's foolish, because then you wouldn't have the problem in the first place, would you? Mindset planning says we need to, number one, expect discomfort. Number two, accept the discomfort. And then number three, distribute discomfort. By distribute, I'm saying, where are we gonna put it? Where are we gonna put the discomfort? We can't get rid of it. We can't get rid of it. Like, we can't remove the discomfort. Okay, that's not an option. We've already accepted that the discomfort is not something that we can just bypass. So we need to know the discomfort is there, it's there to stay. Where are we going to put it? Where are we gonna place it? How will we think of it in order for us to be able to navigate through that? So what mindset planning means is that we are really thinking about the actions that we can take and we are planning our responses. We wanna be very specific. so that when we encounter that discomfort, we're not giving ourselves a chance to even think, "Oh, what should I do about this?" We're straight away, we're just gonna use our response to overcome it. And people that are aware of the importance of mindset planning, you can see that when they encounter discomfort, they just stroll through, they just stroll through. They take it in stride, it doesn't bother them, they don't skip a beat, they're able to just stroll through Because as soon as it comes, they just, boom, use the response, travel through. People that don't do this, they encounter it thinking, oh, I should be fine. Oh, I should be okay. The discomfort hits and they think, maybe what should I do? How should I overcome this? Maybe I can do, oh, that wouldn't work. Or maybe I'll just do, oh, you know what? Maybe I don't need to do this. That's what happens. That's what happens. And we'll go through, you know, we've got a worksheet that you can fill out that will allow you to work through all of this sort of stuff, do your planning correctly, allow you to understand things a little bit more, as well as help you think of different types of things to do in terms of your mindset planning. So you can have a look at those resources to see what type of ways that you can do your mindset planning. But it can be, again, just as simple as slowing down, writing it out, creating a plan at that time, reminding yourself of your motivation or whatever it is, or using our execution strategies, like the peer-to-peer system, which you're about to learn soon, or you may have already learned from one of our webinars. Those are the things that you can apply. So they can be simple, they can be complex, but it's just about being able to actually expect it, about being able to accept it, and then know what you're gonna do with it afterwards. Okay? And it doesn't have to be very complex, but it is a step that needs to be fulfilled. So this is what the planning step is about.