(people chattering) - Okay, so we talked about neuroticism, right? We're talking about neuroticism here. I said that neuroticism is a symptom of a fixed mindset. Okay? And a fixed mindset, remember, a fixed mindset fears failure. A fixed mindset fears failure. Why does it fear failure? Because the person associates themselves, They have an identity with being someone who achieves certain outcomes, okay? So their sense of self is based on outcomes. And that's what a fixed mindset is about, okay? So they fear failure, and they therefore will say things like this. "I wonder what my friends got in the test. "I hope they did worse than me." Comparison with others you see here, right? because this would make them feel better about themselves because their sense of identity and their sense of self is based on the outcome that they get compared to other people. What if I fail? What if the question doesn't pop up? What if I forget? These what if, what if, what if, what if, what if the sky falls down? What if whatever? These infinite constantly asking what if, you know, it's a disease, the what if disease instead of the just do it solution, this what if disease. Why? Because maybe this will lead to failure. And that's not acceptable for someone with a fixed mindset, right? Saying, I just got lucky in this test. Just got lucky because they're not focused on the process. They think it wasn't about them. Their ability, their skills, it's fixed. For this person, they're not thinking about processes. They're only thinking about the outcome they got. And so they think, "Oh, I must be lucky because I'm just not smart enough." So you can see how people that are high achieving can be just as fixed mindset as people that are low achieving. Someone that thinks they're not smart enough versus thinking that I'm someone who's smart and always gets the right answer. Exact same fixed mindset, exact same problems. In high school, the person that got the high mark is the king. Later in life, I mean pretty much straight after high school both people will suffer just as much. There's no point trying, I'm just gonna fail like last time. Again, this person isn't thinking about processes. You wouldn't fail just like last time unless you did the exact same thing as last time. There's no point trying. This person doesn't value effort. They only care about the result. Why am I so stupid? Why am I not understanding this? Right? So we can see this very fixed statement about who they are as a person, right? It's very fixed. It's not about, why don't I understand this? Now, how can I understand it? It's not productive, it's fixed. I can't do it, this is not working, abandon ship. Right? I can't do it, that statement popping out again. I need to get top in class this outcome. If I don't, I'm a loser and a disgrace to me and my family. Oh, that one hits close to home for I'm sure a lot of people, but hopefully you can see the fixed mindset mentality coming out through here. I need to get this right. It's so overwhelming. How am I going to get it right? Wrong question. The question should be, how can I try? How can I put an effort? How can I learn? If I get it wrong, what will I learn from that? And how can I improve? Those are the right questions. Oh my God, this is it. This is the real deal. Psyching themselves out. Why? Because they're afraid of that failure. Oh my God, what if I fail? All right? So this is neuroticism. This is neuroticism. Neuroticism is a symptom of fixed mindset. And I think you can probably relate to some of these. So read through these, right? And have a look at which ones you agree with. I would say that if you agree or feel like you have said three or more, okay, three or more, then of the statements that are on this list, you do have level of neuroticism. And if you say more than just three of these, then you have an even greater level of neuroticism, right? And again, that's just a symptom of that fixed mindset coming through. So why? Why are we fixed? Sorry, why are we neurotic? Where does it actually come from? Well, the thing is that neuroticism is not always just a negative thing. Now, remember, remember that cave theory that we've talked about already? Okay, we need to what? Survive and thrive. Our brain, not only does it not learn unless it thinks it's relevant to that, it will adapt itself in order to make sure we're doing this, right? Learning is one such adaptation. The brain has learned to learn so that it can survive and thrive more effectively. The way that it responds to stress, this is another one of those things, the way that it responds to danger. And this is where neuroticism comes from. Neuroticism is fear of failure, that loss aversion, because it keeps us safe, okay? So the good things are it keeps us safe. It makes us cautious by saying, "What if this happens?" Having these hypotheticals. It makes us aware of risks so that we can manage them. So these are all very good things. Okay, so this is the thing is that neuroticism is an aspect of personality. A little bit of neuroticism is not a bad thing, okay? So a little bit of neuroticism is not a bad thing. It keeps us safe. It keeps us cautious. It keeps us on our toes, right? And make sure that we're not just stupid and it stops us from being reckless, right? It allows us to appreciate the idea of consequences for our actions. These are good things. So what's the problem? Neuroticism is bad when you have too much of it. So this is too much, too much neuroticism. too much neuroticism and we're kept safe, or even though we are already safe. Okay, we're already safe and we're being even safer. It's unnecessarily safe. Okay, we're unnecessarily, I screwed up the spelling of that completely, but unnecessarily cautious. Okay, we're irrationally risk averse. And we have to remember that this is in a way expected, right, because we live in a modern society. There's a lot more safety for us in a modern society than there was when we were eating and hunting out of our cave. Okay, remember the brain didn't adapt for modern society. So these are some of the relics that are left behind. That neuroticism, which would have been a good thing here, because you're surrounded by risks always. You're constantly surrounded by risks. You could get eaten at any moment. And modern day, it's just not the case. It's just not the case. So it becomes a little bit too much. It spirals out of control. And then this, when we have a huge fear of failure, when our level of being fixed is even more, maybe it was just drilled into us that we need to have certain outcomes. and that's just something that we feel is extremely important for us and who we are and our self-worth, then that is very bad, okay? And this is a level of neuroticism, which is very, very impactful, okay? It's very, very detrimental, okay? And it's really the same things as here. It's just a copy of all the same things, but this is at a point where it's significant. What do I mean by significant? I mean that this is actually stopping us from living life the way that we want to. It's affecting our quality of life. We're not able to do things that we want to do because of our fear of failure. We are living a life dictated, controlled by fear. And this is not a life that we want to live. And I hope you're not at this stage, but I know many students who are at this stage in high school who never fixed it. And then once they graduated university, started working, thinking about getting a family, they became this. And it was very natural. As the risks got higher, as life became more complicated, they started fearing it, fearing the loss of it more and more and more. So this is what neuroticism is. Whether you've got it or not, you'll know if you're honest with yourself. We all have a level of neuroticism, but remember, it's about how much we have that makes it good or bad. And we can do something about it. And we can do something about it with these five stages, and we'll go into these five stages in a lot more depth moving forward. But briefly, it's to prevent neuroticism from happening. It's to create plans where there's less things to be neurotic about. Knowledge is power. If we know everything's gonna go according to plan, then there's less stuff for us to worry about. Being able to execute and actually get stuff done, not thinking about things for so long that we put it off forever and procrastinate our entire life away. measuring things that matter. This is important because what we measure is a reflection of what we say is important. What we measure is a reflection of what we think is important. So we need to measure the right thing so we can train our brain into realizing, okay, what we're doing is we're training our brain into realizing what it is that's truly important. And this helps to change the way that our brain thinks. This changes our neurotic pathways at a root cause level. So that over time you just become less and less neurotic and you don't even need as much of this prevention and this planning. Over time, this alone will slowly start turning those gears. Combined with number five, which is management. When we are neurotic, when we do have fixed mindset tendencies, what do we do with that? And that allows us to plan more effectively. That means that we're less affected by the neuroticism while we're executing. And it means that we are able to measure the right things and actually improve based on it because we're not so worried about what we're measuring. So this is managing it, which comes across at all stages, but there's a before, during and after period. And we're going to cover each of these in a lot more depth in this space camp.