(Sessizlik) us skills. So what we're measuring, okay, look, this is what's important, right? This is important to us. These are the things that make a difference. If you don't have these, do you think you can achieve your outcome goal? Not unless you are extremely lucky or there's a miracle, okay? You need this to achieve your outcome goal. There's no way around it. It's a must. It's a given. You have to have it. So that's the thing that's important. Therefore, that's what we should be measuring. So if we are planning our process, we need to be measuring our process. So whatever the process is, we create metrics based on that process. So let's say that the process for learning to study more effectively is to go through this course and practice the techniques and give yourself feedback based on it. So that's the metrics you you need to have, okay? When will you go through the course? When will you practice it? How much will you practice it? How will you give yourself feedback? How much feedback will you give? So you know that when you take off all of these things, you actually have a good understanding of what you're actually doing. Measurement is the key to actually making meaningful improvement. If you don't measure it, you don't have information on what's working and what's not. and then you'll just end up going around in circles. Whereas if you knew what you were doing, if you make a mistake and you measure it, then you can actually correct yourself much more accurately, okay? And then get to where you want to go at the end. So if there's a process, whatever that process is, you wanna make sure that you're collecting metrics on the most meaningful part of that process. So if it's practicing for a sports event, then there's a certain amount of practice that you need to do, certain drills that you would need to do. What type of drills? When will you do those drills? How will you know that you've succeeded in those drills? So that's what process planning is. It means that it gives you an insight into knowing when you are doing the process right. Okay? And this completely depends on what the process actually is, and we'll give you some examples of this as well. Reverse goal setting. We know that the skills are important, therefore we need to have a way of measuring our skills. So how will we know? So here it's saying, how will we know that our skills are improving? How will we know that? And we create a few metrics that we can use to measure that so that if we get those metrics right and we're scoring well, then we know that we're actually getting better. And again, this depends on the skill. And we'll give you some examples based on the specific skills, especially for studying or time management. And again, mindsets, we need a measurement. So how will we know when our mindset is productive? It keeps us happy. It keeps us going. How will we know that? And we track those metrics. And often our processes allow us to build our skills and build up this mindset. We've got processes in place to allow us to achieve our skills and achieve the mindset. So these metrics may actually overlap. You might find that actually, oh, this metric here is actually the same thing that would measure this and would measure this as well. That's fine. That's fine. But it's just about being very clear about what we're measuring and making sure that it's the right thing. Because if you measure it purely based on your test results, for example, if you measure it based on outcomes, you're not going to get a good picture. See, if you wanted to get a result up here, and you said that you're measuring it based on test results, and your test result was down here for one of the tests. See, this doesn't tell you anything, because maybe you would have done better on this test if you had just spent lots of time rote learning and memorizing it. But you probably wouldn't have been able to reach this goal. You would have plateaued here. But you would have done much better for that test. Maybe therefore you realized that and you said, "Okay, I'm going to build my study skills so that even that first test, my study skills might not be quite good enough to get there. But by the time I'm sitting my final exam or whatever, the most important one, my skills are actually higher. So this is why measuring on outcomes doesn't really make sense because outcomes fluctuate depending on how easy or difficult the challenge is. It doesn't say anything about the skills required to actually get there, which is again why reverse goal setting is more effective because it focuses on the skills that will be required for you to achieve it confidently, rather than just relying on luck and rather than it being easy enough. And so based on this, we actually get something called the feedback analysis loop. And this is a great, very simple thing that you can incorporate as part of your daily diary or journal. Well, you know, sometimes I just call it like a daily experimentation log or like a growth log, because that's all it's doing, it's recording your growth and giving you sort of data for you to improve even more. What you can do with this feedback analysis loop is that you can just say, okay, what was my expectation going into doing something, applying a process, developing a skill? You thought, I thought I would be this good, but the reality of it was that I was only, you know, a certain amount good. So let's say one of your skills that you wanted to develop was the ability to focus and have good concentration. And you said, "I will know that I've got good concentration if I'm able to study uninterrupted, deep focus for at least 30 minutes, two times per day." And then you wanna change that to eventually being one hour, three times a day. But for now, you realize that your current goal is this level. So that's the metric that you set for yourself. Am I able to do this? So your expectation going into it might be, yes, I think I can do this. After you try, you might find, no, I actually can't do this. And so now there's more information for you to go through. If you expected something, like if you expected this was gonna be easy for you, and in reality, it was not even possible, it was so far from easy, then that strongly indicates that there is a problem with your process. Because... Your process is not getting you to the result that you needed to get to. And this is why measurement is important. It allows you to refine your process so you're really going to get there. So that's important. Now, if you thought you were going to really kill it, and you basically kill it, but not quite as much as you thought, then that's something different. That might be that your expectations were just a little bit too high. It might be a small adjustment to your process. Maybe your measurement itself was a little bit off. Maybe this should have actually been 20 minutes rather than 30 minutes. So that could be something that's different. So either way, it gives you information depending on how big this area of overlap is. If the area of overlap is large, that means that your expectation and your reality are very closely linked, okay? So here, there's a low chance of there being problems. But if you discover that there is a very low level of overlap, like in this diagram here, then that strongly indicates that there's a problem somewhere, there's either a problem with your expectations or with your measurement, or most likely, most of the time, there's a problem with the process. So that feedback analysis loop is something that you can put into your daily diary at the end of every day, or at the end of every, probably more realistically, you can do this of every week because you want time for your skills to actually develop and all of this stuff to work. Processes aren't instant. At the end of every week you can do a feedback analysis loop for yourself for some of the most important things that you're measuring to see how much you've improved and whether it improved as much as you thought it would. And then you can do an expectation for your next week. By next week I expect to have improved this much. And then you check that at the end of the week. What was the reality? And then if there was a very small area of overlap, that means that you obviously either set your expectations way too high or you are measuring the wrong thing or the process through which you're trying to achieve that is not quite right and you need to adjust that and work on that so that you can actually smoothly reach your goal safely. Okay so this is measurement and how measurement can be built into your system to allow you to really have a high level of confidence and security with you reaching the goal that you want to reach. And if you know this, there's so much information that you're working with here. You are in such high level of control over your outcome that you won't be as worried about it. ご視聴ありがとうございました