[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] - So now that we've got a better big picture understanding of how to manage your time and prioritize, and we're able to just sort of control our day and our week and a little bit more alignment with what we really want that allows us to be more productive, now let's look at-- (speaking in foreign language) - How we can manage our time on a minute by minute or hour by hour basis while we're actually executing tasks. And the most common example of this is something called the Pomodoro technique, which is very, very widely known. So if you're not familiar, the Pomodoro technique was based on an Italian college student who was studying and saw a tomato cooking timer and took that timer, set it for 20 minutes, and studied for 20 minutes, after which they took a five-minute break. Well, I think it was 25 minutes and a five-minute break. And so that became the Pomodoro technique, which is you work for 25 minutes, and then you take a break for five minutes. Now, the Pomodoro technique has been widely distributed, and if you search for it, you'll see millions of different results about the Pomodoro. (microwave beeps) (people chattering) Human brain doesn't tend to do well at maintaining focus for long periods of time. And to be honest, after 20 minutes or so, our focus usually starts to go down. And then number three, plus side, is that it gives a dedicated structure to the way that we use our breaks and when we have breaks. So we have a timed five-minute break, which stops us from going overtime and getting distracted or something like that. The limitation though is that number two, our human brain doesn't tend to focus for that long. That actually varies a lot. It varies in the time of day. It depends on what you're doing. It depends on how you're doing it. If you're really engaged in something, you can focus for hours sometimes. And you've probably felt that before, right? That deep flow state where you don't even know time is passing and you get so much done. (people chattering) - You don't wanna break out of that purely because the 25 minute timer said so, when you could actually just keep in that flow and really be super productive. On the other hand, sometimes we're really tired and even focusing for 25 minutes seems like a stretch. And in that case, by going for longer, we're not actually using our time productively. And even worse, we're training our brain to think that it's okay to work when we're not efficient. (speaking in foreign language) (speaking in foreign language) - Something that we wanna train our brain away from, we want it to be really good at being efficient. And it only gets better at being efficient when it does it more. If we are constantly exposing it to being inefficient because we're tired or not focused or using bad processes, then our brain will get better and better at being inefficient. So there are a few big limitations here. The other aspect is that it doesn't also account for the break time. Sometimes five minutes is not long enough and even if it is long enough, the way that we spend that five minutes can make a big difference. Spending that time having an argument with someone for five minutes is not going to help you take a break at all. And when you get back into your 25 minutes, you're going to end up being more stressed out and even more unproductive. So there are different ways that we can take our breaks as well. So there is a few areas that we can actually start adjusting. And if we look at the research on Pomodoro technique, we can see that there is a broader sort of field of research around work rest timing. And instead of going off of the Pomodoro technique, which has some severe limitations, if we look purely at just what the research says works, we can actually build up. our own technique that is similar to the Pomodoro technique in some ways, but it's actually more personally optimized. So I do not use the Pomodoro technique anymore. I haven't used the Pomodoro technique for years. I feel no inclination to ever use it again. And I see it as a far inferior alternative to what we could be doing instead, which is based on purely what the research says actually works about the Pomodoro technique minus all the stuff that... (beeping) Doesn't work. So this is what I call off rest timing, which stands for optimized for focus rest timing. Basically means we time our rests and our work periods to make sure that our focus is always optimized. So let's look at this topic of off-rest timing. So when we use off-rest timing, there are a few sort of aspects that we can modify. The first thing is the period of time that we're actually working for. So this is the work time. We wanna make sure that our work time is highly efficient, right? We wanna be high level of focus. But the important thing to realize is that we wanna be at a high level of focus for as many cycles as possible. And this is a thing that a lot of people don't think about is that even if you do 25 minutes and five minutes, or if you do 40 minutes and 10 minutes, whatever you are choosing, this is not the only work you're doing that day probably. This is gonna cycle again and again and again, 40 then 10, 40 then 10, 40 then 10, 40 then 10, back and forth again and again. And the amount of work that we're able to get done and ultimately how productive we are able to be is not based on how much output comes from a single cycle. It's based on how much output comes from the entire cycle all together. So we wanna look at it in terms of across an entire day. Let's say that we are able to do four of these cycles. If we're really efficient for cycle number one and number two, only okay efficient for cycle number three and not very efficient for cycle number four, then overall our efficiency is only moderate and our productivity is only moderate. So if we had lots of stuff that we wanted to get done, but the only way to get it done is to be highly efficient for cycles one, two, three, and four, then today we would have failed. We need to make sure that our cycle number one is productive, number two is productive, number three is productive and number four is all highly productive. And even if it means that cycle number one is slightly, let's say five or 10% less productive than it could have been. If it means that cycle number four is 50% more productive than it otherwise would have been, then overall, that means that we win. So we need to look at it in terms of multiple cycles. So not only do we want to have a high level of efficiency and a high level of focus while we are working, we wanna make sure that the next time we enter a work cycle, we're still highly efficient and highly focused for as long in the day as possible. Which means that if this work time is like three hours long, but after that we're dead tired, and we go into it again, we're probably only gonna be able to work for another 30 minutes, one hour, and then our efficiency is so low that we can't have any more cycles into that. And actually, even though we had a great start to the day, we end up failing overall. So that's not really worth it. The second part, obviously, after the work is what we do in our rest. And we want our rest to be highly restorative. And we want to make sure that it increases our overall productivity. And remember, when I use the word productivity, I mean anything that gets us closer to our goal. One of my goals is always to maintain my mental and emotional health. Therefore, anything that I do with my wrist that's gonna detriment my overall emotional health is not gonna be worth it to me. So for example, I could do something that's restful and that it's making me, making my brain turn off from studying. However, if that wrist activity is actually not allowing me to recuperate myself mentally in terms of settling down, rebuilding my focus, or it's not reducing my overall stress, then I don't think that's productive because it just means I'm gonna get stressed out as the days and weeks go on. So it has to be restorative and overallly productive when looked at across a day or a week. So here are some things that we can do. The first thing is that we need to collect a little bit of data. We need to collect a little bit of information. And specifically, we wanna know how long are we able to work for before our focus drops off below a certain point. So when we look at focus, we wanna make sure that our focus is always at a relatively optimum level. And I've mentioned this before. It's because when you're really, really focused at the beginning of the day, that focus drops off over time. If you wait to be really, really low focus to then take a break, it actually takes a very long time for that focus to then rebuild itself. So if you're holding a cup for an entire day, you know, the whole cup, glass half empty, half full thing. The thing is that it doesn't actually matter whether the glass is half full or half empty. What matters is how long you hold the cup for. Even a cup that's completely empty, if you're holding that cup up for three hours, your arm is gonna get sore and you're gonna need the rest of the day to recover from that. Whereas if that cup was completely full and you only hold it for three minutes at a time and you take a 30 second rest between that, you can probably hold that cup up and down for a total of six or seven hours that entire day before your arm is sore. So it's about how frequently you rest because our body has the ability to recover more easily when we're less tired, when there's more reserve to give. So we don't wanna get into here because sure, you were really productive here, but then you need to take a really long break for you to get productive again. And usually we don't give ourselves that much break. So we'd start working again maybe here, and then our focus goes down again, and then we take even more time and we work here. And so we end up kind of being in this very low efficiency, piddly state where we're not really getting any work done anymore, but we still feel like we're putting in lots of effort and we're working really hard, but it's just that our brain is just too fried to do it. And I'm sure this is probably a very familiar type of story for some of you. So we don't wanna get down there. Once we detect that we are below a certain state of being optimum focus, we actually wanna take a break then, 'cause that allows us to recharge much faster, and then we can start working again, and then recharge, work again, recharge, work again, recharge. So it actually allows us to be optimum for longer. Now, as the day goes on, you will get lower. But the main thing is that you still remain relatively high compared to people down here who are just draining themselves to 0% or really low levels of focus and energy constantly. So we wanna stay always pretty high level of focus. So what is this level? What is this line at which you know you should take a break? I generally say that you wanna think about your focus like a knife edge. You wanna make sure that you're really sharp. As soon as you feel like you're getting dull, that's when you wanna take a break. So there's a difference between being dull and being tired. Being tired is down here. Being dull is up here. So what does it feel like when you're dull? When you're dull, it feels like it's just taking a little bit longer to understand. Things are clicking in, but it's taking a little bit longer. It takes a little bit more effort to focus. You can feel like you're starting to just slow down a little bit. When your focus is reduced to the point where you can feel that you're noticeably slower, that's when you should actually take a break. Early on in the day, that might be one hour of work, 40 minutes of work. Later in the day, that might be 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 20 minutes of work. But normally what we do is we realize we're going dull, and then we just keep pushing through that, and we are still dull, and we're dull, and we're tired, and our eyes start hurting, and we start getting a headache, and we're dehydrated, and we need to stretch, and we're really tired now, and that's when we take a break. and that's when we're too low and it takes too long here. So you wanna actually maintain that optimum state here, which means that you will be taking breaks when you feel a lot more fresh than you're used to. So you're gonna feel fresh and you're gonna take a break anyway. But the idea is that it's gonna allow you to be fresh for much longer, rather than being dull and being basically tired for the entire rest of the day, okay? So we need to know how long we can work for. So the very easy way that you do this is you simply start a timer when you start working. Okay, so start the clock when you start working. And then as you're working, just pay attention to where your focus is. When you realize that your focus is dull, simply stop the clock and look at how much time has passed. So let's say for example, it's been 45 minutes and you realize that you're a bit dull now. Well, it's time for a break. much break time should we set aside? Generally speaking, I say whatever time you worked for, divide that by three. So in this case, the rest would be, divide by three, 15 minutes. So you want to take a 15 minute rest now. The second stage is figuring out what to do during this rest so it is as restorative as possible. And that actually depends on one thing. And that one thing is asking ourselves, how fresh do we feel at the moment? Now, if you're not planning on doing any more work after this, and let's say that you're gonna go have dinner out with your family and that's gonna take you two hours, you don't need to worry about this really at all because you're gonna end up taking a break when you leave. So this is only for when you know that you've got like, I don't know, four hours or something, an extended period of time where you have to schedule your time in and you know that you're not going to work for four hours consecutively. So you're going to figure out how to split that time up into multiple cycles of productivity. That's when this matters because you obviously don't need to strategize how you use your rest if you're going to take this massive rest afterwards anyway. This is only when you're trying to be as efficient as possible with your time. Likewise, if you get home from school and it's like, let's say 4pm, and then you're going out with your family for dinner at 5.30pm, and you're thinking, "Okay, by the time I get home and I sit down at my desk and whatever, I'm starting to study, it's 4.30pm, I need to get ready to go out by like 5.15pm, I've only got 45 minutes to study." There's no point thinking about any of this stuff at all, because you've only got 45 minutes anyway. you're not really gonna fit more than one or one and a half cycles in to begin with. You may as well just do your best for 45 minutes. So again, this is really only when you've got extended periods of time that you're sitting and studying for. I would say at least an hour and a half of time that you're already scheduling, and then you can have fit multiple cycles into it. If you can't fit multiple cycles, there's no point. So if we are fitting multiple cycles, then we have done this rest time, we've figured out that we need to rest for 15 minutes in this example. And we ask ourselves, how fresh are we? How fresh are we? So if we are relatively high energy, like early in the day, we're relatively fresh, we don't wanna break out of productivity. So there's actually ways that we can rest while being productive, okay? So we wanna take what's called a productive break. And there are two different types of productive breaks. we can take a topical productive break, or we can take a miscellaneous productive break. And it's actually very simple. A topical productive break means that we do something that keeps our brain engaged in the process, for example, like studying, but we do it in a way that is much more relaxed and much more casual. And one of the most important things is that we change the environment that we're in, okay? And I actually always recommend that if you can, you should change the environment so that you are looking at things that are further away. And the reason is because your eyes need a chance to relax as well. And we have a very strong connection between how tired our eyes are versus how sleepy we feel. And often we might feel sleepy only because our eyes are actually tired, even though mentally we're still alert. It's a weird phenomenon that occurs. So resting our eyes recovers our level of energy by quite a lot. And when you're reading, you're always looking at things up close. You want to give your eyes a break and changing the environment so that you're looking outside at some trees or something. There's even some research saying that looking at green and trees restores your energy more because we're just evolutionarily conditioned to be more like, you know, we like the cave theory again, you know, we used to live outside, right, before we we discovered how to create nice buildings. So we have a tendency to associate outside with our normal state of mind, and it's a bit less artificial. So the environment change and the more relaxed studying is something that could be topical. And an example of this might be going for a walk. This is one that I often recommend to students is going for a walk, just a very relaxed stroll. And as you're going for a stroll, carry a notebook with you and just mentally mind map what you have studied. Just in your head, just go through what you've studied and just vaguely mind map stuff out and think about how things are connected. And don't stress about it. Just kind of casually do it in your mind and walk around and enjoy the scenery and blah, blah, blah. And then if you realize, "Oh, I can't remember what goes here." Then just jot that down in your notebook. And that means that when you come back to your desk for the next work session, you actually have a list of things that you realize that you forgot, that you've just studied. So you now have a really focused list for revision as well. Plus, you mentally just recapped and revised things, which is good revision anyway. So it means that mentally, you're really relaxed 'cause you're going for a stroll, you're enjoying your time, you're not stressing about this, and you're actually still keeping your brain in flow. You're mapping things out, you're engaging, you're learning in a different way, and you're creating this list at the end of it. It's not stressful, it's actually very enjoyable. I actually really look forward to the breaks because of this and it means that when you get back into it, you feel refreshed, you're ready, and you're perfectly primed for your next study session. So that would be a topical productive break. A miscellaneous productive break is basically just doing something that is productive, like literally anything that's productive that's not to do with studying or what you were doing during the work time. So often this is like cleaning your room. I don't know, like, might be going to feed the cat. So these are just like random things that you need to do, like chores. But the idea here is that you need to make sure that this is also like relatively relaxing and it's not gonna be stressful. You don't wanna be stressing about like feeding the cat or something, or stressing about cleaning the room while you do it. You actually wanna just do it like very systematically, methodically, calmly, and just let your brain is take a full break, but because you're still being relatively productive, emotionally it means that you stay in some kind of like semi-flow. You're not like completely becoming a potato. So it just like stops you from entering full potato mode. And it means that when you get back in flow, you are all good as well. And you can take either path, it doesn't really matter. I often will do the topical break because this is actually a really useful activity to do. But sometimes you just don't feel like it. you wanna just not even think at all about it, but you still wanna be relatively productive because you've got a lot of energy left, then you can do one of these miscellaneous tasks. You could do the non-important, urgent things that were in your delegate quadrant from your Eisenhower matrix. You could, but as long as it's not stressing you out. Okay, so like, for me, answering emails sometimes stresses me out 'cause I get a lot of emails. And so sometimes I wouldn't do that because it just, Yeah, it's just not worth my mental state to break out of flow for that. So that's a productive break, and that's when you're relatively fresh, okay? So are you relatively fresh? If the answer is yes, I'm pretty fresh, then I'll do this. What if the answer is no? The answer is no, I'm relatively tired. What do I do then? Well, in that case, what we need to do is active relaxation. So active relaxation simply means doing something that supercharges your brain's ability to re-energize. So if your brain is like this battery and you're like, I am very low energy now, this is typically, if you've been using the off rest timing, this would only normally happen at the end of the day because you shouldn't be this state after the first work cycle, otherwise you did it wrong. Normally this type of thing is like end of the day, you're really, really low energy and you need to do something that actively brings that energy up at a turbo speed more than you would get from just sort of sitting around. And active relaxation, the most efficient way to do active relaxation is actually to do focus training. And the reason is because a lot of the energy loss that you feel is because your brain is so used to just like going in so many directions and so many thoughts flying around that it takes up a lot of energy. your brain is working really hard. So what you need to do is you actually need to be able to turn your brain off. How do you turn your brain off? Well, you can't. So you need to turn it on to something else that doesn't take a lot of energy. So you can't turn your brain off. Therefore, the best alternative is to turn your brain on to something that is very, very low energy, which gives your brain a chance to just rest. And that is focus training, because there's not a lot of things that are less energy consuming to focus on than holding a pen or thinking about your breathing. Okay, so focus training for five minutes or so. And there's actually a really well-known story about a monk called Ajahn Brahm. He, I think, went to Princeton University and he studied physics. So he was a physics major and eventually became a monk. And for one of his advanced physics exams, He reportedly had, it was something crazy, like he had like nine hours of exams on a single day. And one of the exams was like four hours long, followed by like another five hours. It was something crazy like that. And they only had a one hour break in the middle, and that was for lunch. So what he decided to do is, instead of actually eating lunch, he thought, I'm gonna be more awake if instead of having lunch, I spend that time doing focus training, or in other words, mindfulness meditation. So he did that, okay? And there's actually a lot of stories like that. There's famous quotes saying by successful business people saying that when they are busy on an everyday basis, they make sure they do at least an hour of training every single day. The only exception to that is when they're really, really busy, in which case they do two hours. So that really goes to show how powerful this is and actually recharging energy. So for me, you know, me actually even recording these videos right now, I'm recording these videos a lot. I'm recording like 10 hours a day. And so for me, in order to maintain my sanity and not sound like a zombie for you listening to me, I actually need to maintain my energy and recharge. So I'll do focus training in between recording sessions. And after 15 minutes of doing this, I feel just as rested as if I'd taken two hours scrolling through Facebook or Instagram where my brain is basically just entering into what's called passive relaxation. And there's nothing wrong with passive relaxation when you don't have a time limit, but when you're really trying to recharge in a short period of time, passive relaxation is pretty slow and it takes a long time for you to actually recharge to the level that you need to be at, whereas active relaxation does that much, much, much, much, much faster. So that's basically off-rest timing, okay? And this changes as the day goes by. So after 15 minutes is done, you time this as well. You always make sure that you time this, you time this. After 15 minutes is done, then you start your work timer again. You start the clock and you see how long you last. Now let's say that the next time you're only lasting 30 minutes. Well, great. What's your rest gonna be? Your rest is now 10 minutes. And then you do it again. And now you can only focus for 20 minutes. And so now here, your rest has to be like six point something minutes, okay? So you can see how it kind of ends up loosely following a sort of Pomodoro-esque thing, but actually it changes because when you're really focused and high energy, you can work for longer and your flow isn't disrupted. Whereas doing artificial Pomodoro technique or work rest timing, it actually, it's very artificial and it cuts into your flow. Whereas this is actually prioritizing your flow and focus so that you're never cutting your focus short, but you're always resting enough and in the right way so that your focus is rebuilt in the fastest way possible. So doing this, you can actually stay focused for five, six hours a day in total, whereas normally you might only enable deep focus for two or three hours a day. So it makes a really big difference, but you can see how every day, every cycle, this would change, but it's incredibly flexible. So off-rest timing, and again, This is something that I use basically every single day. Personally, I've been doing this again for years, so I don't need to time every single rest that I do. I just generally keep an eye on how long I've been working for and generally figure out how long I need to rest for. But when I was starting, even for the first maybe two or three years, I actually used to time every single thing because I wanted to be really meticulous. And also, this is a technique that didn't actually exist before I created it. So I was really trying to figure out how I could turn this into a system that I could use to figure out how long I really need to rest for. So I was experimenting with dividing by four, dividing by 3.5, dividing by two, dividing by four at the beginning of the day, then dividing by two at the end of the day, different ways of resting. It was very messy when I was doing this, but for you, it's very, very simple. Just follow this as it is, and you should feel that it maintains your focus much more easily. [BLANK _AUDIO]