[İngilizce konuşmalar] So what we want to do is we want to identify and plant positive cues. So these are cues for behaviors that we want. So let's say that the cue is for studying. Then what we can do is we can think of all the different cues that might allow us to associate with studying. laptop, certain web page, books, open, maybe a school bag or something. These are cues and we're gonna plant these in our environment and I call this the cookie jar effect and you'll remember me talking about the cookie jar effect from the previous video where I basically said that you might not eat any cookies if you don't see the jar on your you know kitchen top but if you see the cookie jar you're more likely to eat it. But what we're doing is we're planting good cookie jars with good cookies in them so that we incentivize ourselves to eating them more easily and we're removing bad cookie jars so that we're not going to be affected by them. So that's the second part is that we're removing the bad cookie jars. So we want to identify and remove negative cues. So the negative cues might be the things that we would procrastinate with or that gives us anxiety or stress. Okay, so this might be, you know, posters of universities or exams or, you know, we often have these like motivational like vision boards, right? Like this is your goal. This is your goal, you know. And the thing is actually seeing that goal might actually make you stress. There's no point doing that, you know. All of this vision board, law of attraction stuff, it's just kind of like the pseudoscience thing that people just buy into because it just sounds magical. But there are actually scientific ways that we can handle this. So we would remove that. It might be your phone. You know that's often a big one or it might be certain websites. And we can block these by using you know website or app blockers. And we can set up the settings very specifically so that we you know block these. Now the defining feature of someone who is productive and successful is that they spend effort and motivation on when you just don't have these cues to begin with. So their effort and motivation is invested in identifying and planting cues and identifying and removing negative cues or distractions. So students who do this well, they will plant cues very, very well. And they will remove cues very well. Students who don't do this, often don't do this properly or don't do this part properly. They kind of do it only halfway and half effort it. and we wanna take it a bit more seriously. So one thing that I recommend is for, if for example what you wanna do is you wanna exercise more regularly and exercising has a lot of great benefits for your brain function. So if studying is something that you wanna get good at, exercise is something that's incredibly important to enhance that and there's a lot of research and studies on that and I'm not gonna go into that right now but just take my word for it for the instant. And if we're wanting to do something, let's say we wanna go for a run. And then, you know, hang your shoes, hang your shoes on your door handle, okay? Something like that. Or what some of my students have done in the past is they have balanced their textbook on top of their door handle. So in order for them to leave their room and watch TV or play PlayStation or something in the living room, they need to actually take the book off the handle, which is an additional effort. So what we're doing is we're creating an environment, and you always want to think about it like this. You're creating an environment where the easiest thing to do is the good thing. And where you can't be bothered, okay, doing the bad thing, okay? Think about it like that. The easiest thing to do is the good thing. And you just can't be bothered doing the bad thing because it's so much effort required. So if your phone is in another room, or you gave it to your mom, okay? You gave it to your mom, And mom is the one that's like, okay, I'm gonna make sure that you, you know, do the amount of study beforehand. And you've given your phone to your mom. It's like, you just can't be bothered going to your mom and explaining why you're giving up to get your phone back. So you just wouldn't bother. If you're a website blocker, if you use like two separate website blockers, the act of like disabling them and changing the settings and all of that is like, I just can't be bothered, right? So the idea here is that we don't wanna rely on our motivation. We want to rely on actually our laziness. Mind blowing, right? We're so lazy that we can't be bothered being distracted because we've created an environment that is conducive for our success, okay? And the trick here is environment. And again, there's a lot of research on this. So what we know now is that if we want to change someone's behavior, one of the most powerful things that we can do is actually change the environment. So, older school psychology said that, you know, to change the behavior, we focus on the behavior, we focus on the response part. But now what we know and what a lot of companies and a lot of people that are trying to hijack your attention like social media and games and things, what they will do now is they'll focus and invest millions on changing the environment. So, in hospitals, school cafeterias, things like that, there's a lot of thought that goes into where do we place healthy foods? where do we place water to encourage people to drink and eat more healthily without them realizing that they're being influenced? So healthy food is often earlier on. Water is often more accessible, whereas it's harder to get the unhealthy food. It's near the back, it's in the corner, it's not as visible, and the soft drinks and stuff are hiding around behind the corner where you can't really see it as much, which means that we're changing the cues and we're changing the environment, and naturally the behavior actually changes. So for me, I'm a strong, extremely strong proponent of spending effort and time to optimize the environment. And I will often spend hours or even the entire day to set up my environment so much that it's impossible for me to be distracted and get work done because I realize how impactful this is. So you know how I said that I won't use the full peer-to-peer system all the time. Sometimes I just use parts of it. The prep part is, I'm gonna put a star next to that because the prep part is something that I almost always will use. I very rarely will not use the prep aspect. So that's the first P in the Pia Pia system, okay? Prepping the environment. da (speaking in foreign language) (laughs)