The E on the PAPS system, so P and then E, both of the E's are actually here, which stands for easy and exit. Now a lot of people are very confused about the easy and exit stage. So the easy and exit is for the response, okay, it's for the response. So we've done the Q with the prepping the environment part. The next part is the response. So what we want to do is we want to make the desired behavior extremely easy. And when we're talking about making it easy, there's a concept I call called minimum viable goals. Minimum viable goals, otherwise known as MVGs, which I'm sure you've heard me talk about before. So the minimum viable goal means that we are ramping things up so that instead of focusing on the biggest task, we're focusing on the smallest task that allows us to get there. And I've explained this before in the previous video, so go and revise that. I'm not going to spend time talking about this now. It's exactly the same thing that I've talked about then. So the minimum viable goals, this is actually another one I'm going to put a star here. Minimum viable goals is something that I never not use, okay? So when I use parts of the system, at a minimum, I will always use this. Okay, I never will put this aside. Because for me, minimum viable goals makes the biggest difference to whether I actually get stuff done. And it trains my brain's ability to just get into it and just start. And it's extremely powerful. Having the skill to just not procrastinate and just get into it is extremely powerful. And what trains your brain to do that the most is focusing on minimum viable goals. So if you need a recap, go back and watch that video again on procrastination to refresh yourself. Minimum viable goals plus the prep part, that is the, these are the two things that make up, I would say, if I'm doing it partially, and I'm at a point now where I've done my habits for really a long time, you know, years. If I'm building a new habit, I will use the full PAPS system just to be safe. But if it's a habit that I've already kind of developed and I'm just making sure I stay consistent, then I'll do the prep plus the easy and exit slash minimum viable goals. These two things, I'll do that. That'll be my kind of 90% of the time, that's my working set, my working go-to arsenal. And if I need to, I'll pull out the whole PAPS system if it's not working. So the exit part is actually referring to the element of the minimum viable goals that I've already talked about before, which is that you give yourself the real opportunity to exit that flow. So if it's studying, for example, and we're saying we wanna study for two hours, and we say, okay, before that is one hour, and then before that is 15 minutes, and before that is sit at my desk, and before that is to stop what I'm doing, and before that is to look away, then I say, okay, I'm gonna give my chance to exit at each step. So I'm saying to my brain, look, you can look away and stop. You can stop what I'm doing and stop. I can sit at my desk and I can go back. So I'm basically telling my brain, you have the option of going back at any time. You have the option to quit at any time. And what that's doing is it's telling my brain, Don't worry, okay? Don't worry, don't get overwhelmed by this. And this is very useful, you know, especially for students who are very neurotic and thinking, okay, how do I just, you know, get on with it and stop overthinking? It's like, just start, and then after you start, you can always quit and go back. You've always got the option there. Don't worry, you're not committing to the whole thing, which is very overwhelming. All you're doing is just committing to the next minimum viable goal, which is very easy to do. It's very easy to look away. it's very easy to just stop what I'm doing. It's very easy to sit at my desk and it's easy to study for 15 minutes. So I give myself these opportunities to exit out of it. Now, this is the tricky part, is that we need to sort of play it by ear in terms of what level of exit is something that's good enough for us. And I usually use a two minute rule. And the two minute rule is basically saying that as long as I start doing my activity for two minutes, I'm kind of in the clear, I'm kind of in the clear. But it depends on the activity. So if what I wanted to do was study for two hours, then I would say that maybe two minutes is not necessarily good enough for me to feel particularly accomplished. I might say that 30 minutes is instead the amount that I would say I feel accomplished by. I'm not saying that I don't exit until 30 minutes, but I'm saying that I wouldn't reward myself until I finish the 30 minutes. And because that is the final part of the peer-peer system, P-E, or the final part of the first peer, so it's P-E-E, and R is at the conditioning step, which stands for reward. So we're conditioning ourself with a reward. So we want to reward ourselves when we accomplish a goal, okay? So a goal is reached, therefore we give ourselves a reward. And we wanna make sure that we tightly lock this reward so that we're not doing this outside of the desired behavior. So if it's playing a game, don't play the game, you know, constantly all day, every day. For me right now, as I'm recording this, I'm just trying to watch a new Netflix show and I kinda like it and I do wanna watch it and I'll wake up and I'm like, "Man, I wanna watch that next episode." But I only say, "I'm only gonna watch it after I do this goal. I'm not gonna watch it unless I do that. And what I'm doing here is I'm locking it. I'm locking it so that I can't do it otherwise. Some of my friends, what they've done in the past is they'll take a movie or something like a drama that they wanna watch, and they only watch it while they're on the treadmill at the gym. So, you know, they're so incentivized to watch the drama that they go to the gym to run on the treadmill, okay? So that's what we're doing, we're locking this reward. If we have a reward that we enjoy, but it's not locked, but we wanna use that, then just lock it. So some people will say, okay, reading is something I enjoy, but I don't only read after I study. Well, the solution to that is make it so that you only read after you study. Deliberately do not read until you have studied. Okay, so that's what we wanna do. We wanna lock this reward until we have accomplished and fulfilled this goal. And that's gonna slowly condition ourselves so that we find the act of studying as enjoyable as the reward that we get. And you're like, I still don't believe that. And you don't have to believe me, just do it. And you'll realize that it's true and it's magic. And I love that. And I exploit that. Heavily in my life. So, that's what we want to do with the goal. Now, the reason that I mentioned this two minute rule is because when do you actually give yourself the reward? So, if you were to just look away and then you go back to watching TV, do you then reward yourself? 'Cause that seems a little bit meaningless, right? 'Cause you're rewarding yourself purely for looking away. Now, if we're being really technical, it's still kind of a win because we're still training the first part of the habit. But again, the hardest part of developing a habit is actually the part of just starting. And that's like the procrastination wall, right? Once you've started, it's much easier to keep going, but the starting is the stuff that's really difficult. And after you've started, it's much easier. So that's where the two-minute rule comes in. I say, reward yourself only if you've been doing it for at least two minutes as a minimum. Which means in this example here, we wouldn't actually reward ourselves until we at least get to like here, okay? If that is two minutes of studying, which means that we are incentivized to do this whole flow up until at least the first two minutes. And remember, you can still exit at each stage, you just won't get a reward, okay? You won't get a reward, but you can still quit and you can still exit at each stage, right? So you can still exit at each stage, However, you wouldn't give yourself a reward until you've done it for at least two minutes. Now, if you're finding that it's easier and easier to not procrastinate, then this two minutes should really be extended out. So you can extend this out to maybe 10 minutes. And then you've studied for 10 minutes and you can give yourself a reward. It's not saying, okay, it is not saying, study for 10 minutes and then you're feeling fine and then give yourself a reward. It's not saying actually quit even though you feel like you're fine. If you're feeling like you can keep going, just keep going. Okay, keep going. Don't stop to give yourself the reward just because you've done the 10 minutes. You know, if you keep going and you do the whole two hours, great. Your reward will feel even better at the end of this. It's just saying that you wouldn't get the reward until at least this point. But, you know, you obviously don't stop just for the sake. of doing the reward. This whole system is designed so that you can be productive. If you stop being productive purely because the system says, oh, 10 minutes is the minimum time, therefore I should be able to stop, that defeats the entire purpose. Okay, so you basically push this two minutes out until, you know, to the point where it feels difficult. So initially, if you have a lot of issue with procrastination, if you're a chronic procrastinator, just doing the first two minutes might honestly be a huge struggle for you. So it makes sense to put the reward there. But if you're no longer a chronic procrastinator, number one, good job, well done, and now you're finding it easy to just get on with it, then, well, rewarding yourself for two minutes doesn't really make sense, 'cause it's actually not that hard anymore. Now, maybe studying for 10 minutes is the real challenge. And then this, it makes sense to give yourself the reward here. Maybe 10 minutes is easy for you. What you're already struggling with is to push for one hour. Great, reward yourself after one hour. So when you reward yourself actually depends on when you find it's difficult. And you wanna calibrate it to a roughly like that two minute rule level of difficult where it's, you know, initially really hard to just get started. And then it becomes harder to go for longer and longer. So the reward gets pushed back further and further. So don't reward yourself for meaningless things. Only reward yourself when you feel like you've accomplished something. And even if two minutes doesn't seem like a lot, maybe that's a big accomplishment for you. So you do deserve a reward. But maybe it's not an accomplishment. Maybe one hour is accomplishment. Maybe two hours is your real accomplishment. So only give yourself the reward then. And that is your first set of peer. P-E-E-R, and that's your peer system. And the next part is the literal peer. And that is actually very easy because what we're doing here is we're just giving ourselves an additional level of accountability We're using our friends, we're using our family, we can even use strangers, just like acquaintances, who are both willing. So you're in the I Can Study community, you can actually create an accountability buddy using people from the community. And this is something, again, I've already talked about before, so I don't need to explain this too much. All we're doing, the second PIR literally stands for finding a PIR that you use to hold yourself accountable, and there is that consequence, okay? So remember that burnt ships strategy that we talked about before, this is where we can have it come in. So I'm not gonna explain this anymore because we've already covered this. You can go back to the procrastination and focus sections earlier on to refresh yourself. So this is the peer-peer system. Prep, easy and exit using minimum viable goals, reward yourself variably depending on what's challenging, plus associate an accountability partner using an actual peer. We've got a worksheet that you can fill out to design your peer-peer system. And when you do this, like I've said, it really does work. It's extremely powerful. You can use aspects of it, or you can use the full thing. I recommend using the full thing if you're just a beginner. But for me, my two that I would never ever compromise on are these, the minimum viable goals, easy exit, the prep, this section. The peer is something that I often do forego. So a lot of people will use this peer because it seems really powerful, and it is very powerful, and it's good to use it. Over time, you don't need it as much. For beginners, you definitely need this, okay? Definitely, 100% you need this when you're first starting, if it's a big issue for you. As your brain gets better and better at just doing things, you realize that you don't really need the peer as much. You can hold yourself accountable, and instead, you can just rely on the first peer, and eventually, you don't even need the reward. You can just use the P-E-E. And eventually you don't even need the E&E 'cause your brain is so good at doing that, you can just do the prep, or in some cases, just the minimum viable goals. That's the peer-to-peer system, and that is how you can scientifically hack your brain into just being ridiculously productive so that you can build these high-performance habits, reduce procrastination, be consistent, not be so lazy, just get on with it, not overthink things, not be neurotic, and ultimately be someone who is motivation enhanced rather than motivation dependent so you don't fall into this cycle of inevitably burning out and failing your goal. 100