- So with all of that out of the way, let's finally look at the system that I've been telling you about, the system that I use, the one that's been so effective for me and so many of our students. This is called the Priority Zero Plus One system. And I don't know if that's a good name or a bad name, but I've called it this name for a long time now and I don't have any... - Intention of changing it. So Priority Zero Plus One is fundamentally a very simple system. What it relies on is setting clear priorities and then following those priorities. (people chattering) in order of priority. And you'll see a lot of familiarities between the system that I'm gonna teach you versus stuff that I've already taught you before. But this is gonna kind of put it all together in a single cohesive system. And so let's take a look at that and how we can use it. And at the end of this, you'll have. [ Background noise ] in more depth and craft it for yourself. But right now I'll just go over the basics of how it works so that you can get into crafting your own schedules and building your own system very shortly. So we're talking about the Priority Zero Plus One system. So the first thing is that the name is very weird and confusing. So here's the thing. Priority number one is referring to the fact that you should be very clear about what is your number one priority. That's simply what it's saying. It's saying what is priority number one for you? What is priority number one? Is priority number one for you to rest? Is priority number one for you to study? And it means that you're taking a step to understand what it is that's going to get you to your goal the best. So we've already done things like reverse goal setting. Okay, we've already done things like creating our performance goals. We've already evaluated the processes that are going to allow us to build the skills required in order for us to build our performance goals. And we figured out these skills using our reverse goal setting. So we already know what it takes for us to get to where we need to go. What we need to do now is figure out what are we prioritizing from that list of things that we need to do on a daily or weekly basis. So let's say for example, today my goal is to study. And mentally I'm feeling all good, emotionally I'm feeling all good, so I'm not worried about that. I just want to make sure that I study. But we often have more than one thing that we need to do in a single day. Maybe we also want to exercise. Maybe we also want to spend time with our family. Maybe we want to spend time with our friends. Maybe we need to take our dog out for a walk. Maybe we want time for ourself. Maybe we're spending that time playing games. That's all good. Maybe we want to make sure that we're meditating. So even on a single day, there are a lot of things that we might want to do. So what is my priority for today? What is the one thing that I feel is the most important thing for me to get done today that is gonna get me closest to my goals that I've set up here? So we might say, okay, honestly, the most important thing right now is for me to make sure that I study. So when we put it into our schedule, what we're going to do is we're going to simply add the studying to our schedule first. And that time is protected. So let's say our schedule goes from 8 a.m. and we're gonna finish at 10 p.m. We're gonna say, okay, I'm going to school at this time, so we're gonna block this time out 'cause we can't do anything about that. Study, all right, I'm gonna study after I get home from school. That's where my study block's gonna be. And if you have difficulty with procrastinating and all of that, well, that's fine. We can chuck our peer-to-peer system in here, can't we? So that means that this time is protected. So your goal, your number one priority is just to be able to do this task. Now, we can look at our other priorities. What's the second most important thing that I'd wanna do today, other than studying? Okay, well maybe the second most important thing is, I really wanna make sure that I meditate before I go to sleep. Great, let's put meditating in as number two. That fills that time there. So after we fulfill our first priority, then we can fulfill our second priority. And let's do it one more time. Let's figure out what is the third most important thing. Let's say that that's to take our dog out for a walk. And we can do that after we have finished studying, right here. Great. So we've now got three priorities. And you don't have to do three priorities, you can just stick with one, you can do two. Most of the time I'll have usually two priorities a day that I just try to balance as top. And then you can fit all the other things around here. If you get time to exercise in between here, you can do that. You can spend time with your family, maybe over here, you can chat with your friends here. Maybe you can play games here before you go to sleep. So these are the things that you can also do. And you put that all into your schedule. So your schedule would say exercise, study, blah, blah, blah, blah, all of that throughout the entire day. But you know that if something goes wrong, if you end up staying late at school, whatever happens, you know what needs to stay, what needs to be protected. It gives you a clear priority. So if you stay late at school, you're not going to have time to exercise. So the question is, do you either exercise and then push back your study Or do you remove exercise so that you can make sure that you maintain study? The answer is because this was priority number one, you make sure no matter what, this gets done that day. So you rearrange everything else so that priority number one is always protected. What about if something happens and actually this whole block of time up until here is taken up? Now it's cut into our study time and we weren't able to avoid it. Even at our best effort, we couldn't avoid it. What does that mean? Well, simply, what we do is we remove everything else in our schedule so we can make room for that study at the time that we have available. So again, everything comes secondary to priority number one. Priority number one is the most important thing that we need to maintain. And what I've realized is that even though in a single day, it means that you're not getting everything possible that you could get done, even though every single day you're only getting maybe one or two things done, because the things you're getting done are always of high importance, it means that you are over time staying on top of things. So if this is time here, and this is how busy you are, then over time, your level of busyness tends to go up and down. You've got weeks where you're relatively busy, you've got weeks where you're relatively free and there's not as much to do. So what happens is that by keeping something that's very consistent and always getting high priority tasks done, it means that on some weeks, you're not able to get everything done that you wanted to, but you make up for it when you're more free. So it means overall, you're always staying on top of all of your tasks, even though on a single day or a single week, you might be falling a little bit behind, it means that the next week you're catching up. And so it maintains you overall. It becomes very, very steady and very predictable. So even for me, even when I'm extremely busy, generally I don't need to deviate from this priority one, priority two, priority number three. What it might mean is that I have to give up more things in order to make my priority number one or priority two still possible. But it means that I still get everything done that I need to get done. So that's what priority number one means. So let's look a little bit more at how we can dictate what actually should be our number one or number two or number three priority for that day or the next day. And to do that, we can actually use something called the Eisenhower matrix. This is an incredibly famous, well-known prioritization tool. It's probably the most famous and well-known prioritization tool that exists. And again, this is something that I use on a daily basis. My literal to-do list app that I use has the Eisenhower matrix baked into it. So I literally use this every single day. And the Eisenhower matrix splits up work into four different quadrants. And it splits it up in terms of things that are urgent. So urgency versus importance. So things that are really important and really urgent, let's say is up here. This is your focus quadrant. So these are things that are not only very urgent for you to do. For example, the deadline is coming up soon. If you miss this now, you've got serious consequences. But also, that it's important, and that it actually makes a big difference for you in your life. So, something that's urgent and important might be to study for a test that's coming up very soon. It could be to apply for the university you wanna go into before the deadline closes. These are things that you cannot ignore. There is no way you can ignore them because they are both high urgency in terms of time, but also high importance in terms of the actual meaning and significance of what would happen if you didn't do it. Okay, the importance of what would happen if you didn't do it. Let me just write that down, 'cause it's quite important. Importance equals significant consequence. Consequence if you did not. (mouse clicking) Do it. Then we've got things that are urgent, but not important. The things that are urgent, but not important. Now the traditional Eisenhower matrix actually calls this the delegate quadrant. Because, well, I guess 'cause it's built for businesses and things where people can just delegate tasks to other people. And if it's possible for you to give this task over to someone else, then yes, you should do that. So these things that are urgent but not important, it means that there's no significant consequence if you don't do it. However, the deadline is pretty soon. So this could be something like you were wanting to buy something and then the sale ends really soon. But if you don't buy it, there's not really a huge consequence. So it's urgent, but it's not actually that important. So this takes a backseat. And the things that are in the delegate task that if you're a business executive, you can delegate. For most people, we have no one to delegate it to, and I'm sure your parents wouldn't appreciate it. So instead of delegating, there are other things that we can do. Instead of delegating, we do it in a batch, and we delay it until the last moment, okay? So we want to deliberately not do them until the last minute, and then we wanna do all of it in one go. The reason we do it in one go is because we want to just maintain a flow state. These urgent but not important things usually end up not taking too much time. So it's possible to crank out five or six of them all in one go in a single focus block of just handling miscellaneous activities that you need to do. And you do it all just at the last moment because you know that even if you weren't able to get it done, it's not gonna have a significant impact. Well, why would you do that? Why would you deliberately delay it when you could get it done earlier? Well, the thing is that there's an opportunity cost of spending time to do it now if it's not important because it takes time away from doing stuff that is important. And obviously, you wanna do important things more than things that aren't important. You really don't wanna be doing this stuff that's not important if you could avoid it. So that's why we delay it because we don't want to take time away from where our focus needs to be, which is the stuff that is actually important because this stuff will make a difference, whereas this, even if you were to not do it, it doesn't really matter so much. And I'll talk a little bit more about how to do it and batch in a really nice way soon. The other quadrant we have is the quadrant of stuff that is not important or urgent, not important or urgent. And this is a quadrant which is just delete. So stuff that is neither important nor urgent is stuff that you just don't wanna do at all. You shouldn't actually spend any time doing this. So this quadrant is, you know, these are tasks that other people might have given you. You don't really care about them. It doesn't really matter to you. It doesn't really make a big difference. It's just a whatever sort of task that you thought, oh, maybe I can do that if I've got time. It's not important. Even if you don't do it, it doesn't matter. And the deadline isn't very urgent either. So you just get rid of it. And people might think, okay, well, what if it becomes important at some point? If it becomes important, it's gonna make its way onto your to-do list eventually. If it becomes urgent, it will make its way onto your to-do list eventually. So you don't actually have to worry. Anything that's in this quadrant, you can safely delete. Because if it was important enough for you to really need to focus on it, it will somehow find its way back onto the list anyway. It's kind of like if you downloaded a file and you look at it and think, "Oh, I don't need this anymore." And you delete it, if you really do end up needing it, you're gonna end up downloading it again. So you don't actually have to worry. So here, freely and rigorously delete things. Just make sure that it wasn't really important. And double check your deadline so it's not actually secretly urgent. Which leaves the final quadrant, which is the important but not urgent category. Important and not urgent category. which is called the schedule quadrant. The schedule quadrant is referring to stuff that you know you need to do because it is important, but there isn't a looming imminent deadline or anything. So you wanna set aside time to actually do this. Put time in your calendar to do this task so that you get it done and you're not putting it off. And it's very easy to put this off because of the fact that it's not urgent. And remember, our brain is foolishly wired to prioritize short-term gain, which is why all the time we end up being in this urgent zone. But we wanna make sure that we schedule these things in first, because the important, not urgent things are some of the things that make the biggest difference in life. So for example, something that is important, but not urgent, might be to increase your studying efficiency or your time management. This is something that might not make a difference for you for at least the next six months. So it's not actually something that you might consider traditionally urgent. But the consequence of not doing this could be completely life-changing and extremely detrimental. So if you don't schedule time to do this, at a certain point, what will happen is that stuff that doesn't get scheduled in will become now both important and urgent. Therefore, now it's something you need to focus on. And this is what will create stress, is when you don't schedule things that are important and not urgent, and they become urgent, then it becomes stressful. And this is when this thing can end up becoming overwhelming because you've got too many things going on at the right time, and you just feel like you're putting out fires. So ideally, we wanna spend most of our time in this quadrant. This is the golden zone. We want to spend most of our time here, but we also acknowledge that it's really impossible to spend all of your time there. So the remaining time, you want to be spending it here. Obviously, this is the most important. This is the second most important. This is the third most important, and this is really not important at all. So when we apply the Eisenhower matrix, we can actually start seeing a little bit more clearly what we can call important or not important. And based on that list, we can schedule the things into our day and use this priority one system to rearrange as we need to go. And again, still follow those same guidelines about scheduling, use an app or a calendar or something. Be very clear and specific about the goals that you're setting. Don't overschedule. It's better to underschedule if you really needed to and this way of scheduling provides a lot of flexibility as well. And the Eisenhower Matrix is something that can really help you along the way with all of that. Now, I did talk about this batch part here and how you can actually do this more effectively. So, I recommend that you use this Priority 1 system. And you set your schedule and you do all of this. You, number one, you prioritize. Number two, you create your schedule. I actually recommend that you do this at the end of every day. Daily for the next day. Obviously, you're scheduling for the next day. You can't schedule for the past. And when you're scheduling, when you're prioritizing, what you're going to end up doing is while you prioritize, you're going to end up reviewing all of the stuff that you needed to do that day. Okay? So, you might want to keep something like a task list or to-do list or something throughout the day. So if you think of something that you need to do, you can just chuck it on there. You don't have to really collect, like, organize it or anything. You can just, as you have ideas, you can just jot them down. You could use Google Notes or a task management app like Asana or Trello or just a notebook, whatever it is, whatever's comfortable for you, it doesn't really matter. And just keep a list of all the tasks that you accumulate throughout that day. Then, at the end of that day, you can prioritize to see what's the most important thing to get done. While you're going through this list, you're going to then chuck this into the Eisenhower matrix in order to prioritize. Based on this, you're going to create your focus areas, you can create your schedule areas, and then you're going to create the delegate areas, which we want to batch and delay. One way that we can actually batch all of these things together, is to literally do them at the time that we identify the issue. So if there is a task that you think is not important, however it's relatively urgent, if it were to take less than two minutes to do that task, do it now, do it on the spot. So we're going through our task list for the day, we're putting it through our eyes now matrix and we realize, ah, this is a task that is not important, but it is urgent. You ask yourself, can I do this task within two minutes? If the answer is yes, just do it. Because it actually wastes more time and energy and mental effort to keep this and put it into your list and manage it rather than just getting it over and done with. So actually a lot of these non-important but urgent things that exist here, we can actually get this done straight away on the day that we realize we need to do it. And it doesn't take very much time because we are still doing it all back to back to back. Anything else that we can't do, that might take more than two minutes, we just delay that until a later time where we have a bit of free time and we can just batch through them and go through that list and crank them out. And we don't have to worry about it because of the fact that it's not important at the end of the day anyway. So that's a little way that we can apply another couple techniques here. So the techniques that I've just introduced in addition is number one, this task list that we go through at the end of every day. And number two is this two minutes, and if it's doable within two minutes, we'd get it done straight away. And actually, this is derived from a very famous task management system. Again, probably the most famous task management system that exists, which is actually called the Getting Things Done system, which I used for quite a while, and I don't really love anymore. I feel like it doesn't work for students very easily. So I don't actually recommend this. I just recommend the little bits that I've taught you now. So that's kind of the main aspect of the system. Now I haven't actually touched on priority zero yet. I've just talked about the number one priority. Priority zero is saying, we can sometimes get so consumed with these tasks that we actually forget why we're even doing the tasks in the first place. So this is something that I've added on, which is to say, priority zero, these are your values and your goals themselves. long-term goals and your fundamental values. And I'd suggest once every month, have a look at the values and the goals that you're using to set all of your priority one to make sure that you're going still in the right direction. Because if this is wrong, then this will also all be wrong. Everything that comes after that, all the decisions that you make after that will be wrong. So if you're going through this and then you realize, "Hey, I don't even want to do this career anymore." Then you actually need to focus on priority zero to build that up. Now, obviously our goals and our values don't tend to change that quickly, which is why I just say once a month. And it's just a quick mental check-in to say, "Look, am I still going the way that I want to go? Is my life still going the way that I want it to go?" And when you're young, it's very easy to ignore that step because things are usually more straightforward and linear, and there's this more structure to your life, but you wanna build this habit so that you're more intentional and you know where you're heading and why you're heading there. And although I don't really talk highly of motivation, what this will do is that it actually does improve your motivation because you're constantly reminded of the meaning behind why you're doing what you're doing and you're just keeping this alive and well aligned. So the priority zero is just an alignment step to say, look, it's still important for me to live a certain way. So you might decide that you wanna have a really hustle and bustle life and be doing all of this every single day, but if you spend a moment to think, okay, what do I really want right now? And you think, you know, maybe I want something that's a little bit more easygoing. Maybe I don't want things to be so intense. Maybe I want a life that's a little bit more relaxed. And then that's a change in your values and that's perfectly okay. That's perfectly okay. But it gives you time and space to actually think about it properly and it lets you know that it's okay to change your mind because you just wanna live the way to live, right? You don't want to live the way that someone else tells you to live. You don't want to live the way that you're tricking yourself that you think you want to live if it's going to make you miserable at the end of the day. You know, that's just not going to, that's obviously not going to be worth it to live a certain way if it makes you miserable. So by having that step in there, it means that we can say, look, if I want to be a little bit more easygoing, great. That means that for the month to come, the way that I prioritize things is going to be different because now the most important thing might be actually the significant consequence is that I'm way more stressed out. In which case, things that go into this focus zone might be more along the lines of self-care, mental health, taking a break, relaxing, spending time with friends and family, whereas the stuff that's still relatively important but not as important might be stuff like studying. And this could have been completely flipped around the previous month, and it just means that you're keeping everything in alignment there. So all of this is covered in that worksheet as well, but you need to know this basic theory to actually even use that worksheet and go through and create your schedule. So this again, Priority Zero Plus One, this is a system of time management that I use. I've been using this for years now. It works for me very, very consistently. In fact, there has actually never been a situation where it has not worked for me. I've never been too busy or not busy enough for the system to be worth it. And I've had a lot of success teaching this to other students as well, because of the fact that it is very flexible and it's inherently extremely personal because the way you prioritize are based on your values and your goals, and the priorities you choose are based on your own method of prioritization and your own schedule. So it's something that would work for students perfectly easily, unlike a lot of other time management frameworks out there, which are kind of not geared towards students who sort of have to be at school for a long period of time every single day. (people chattering)