[ Background Sounds ] So earlier in the course we talked about productivity, procrastination, scheduling, time management. We're going to touch on that a little bit more now, bringing in some of the ideas we've talked about before, but then putting it into something that's a little bit more robust, a bit more advanced, but overall a more effective and efficient version of all the things that we've talked about. The system that I'm going to teach you in terms of time management is the same system that I use to this day. So on an easy, slow week, it works fine. It's great, it's super easy to use, but it scales really well. So when it gets really, really busy, when my schedule is hectic, it will still work just as well. And it provides a lot of security for me because I know that I can fall back on the system get me the results that I need without me having to worry about how to schedule everything in. As long as I plug it into the system, it will allow me to direct my efforts in exactly the right way. So it's a system that I've built across years of experimentation, looking at dozens of different frameworks and systems of time management and task management. I've - And this system is what I've kind of come up with. And I find that it works very easily. It's quite flexible for different people in different situations and different scenarios. And it's not something that requires a lot of time or skill investment to be able to do. It's something that you can just kind of keep in your pocket and use as you need to. So before I go into explaining how the system works, I first want to address a few myths because these are myths that, first of all, I only realized through trial and error. And I made a lot of mistakes before I realized this, and I wish someone had told me this early on. But second of all, these are two common myths that if you were to still believe this, I think it's very difficult to reach a certain level of productivity. I think it represents sort of a hard ceiling. So the first myth that I wanna talk about is the idea that working faster makes you more productive. So if I think back to when I was near the end of high school Entering into university, I wanted to be more productive. I knew that I'd have to work more efficiently. I didn't really have an idea about what that really meant at all, thinking about it now, but I focused on something that intuitively felt right, which was in order for me to get more done, I need to do my work faster. What I didn't realize at that time was that that doesn't actually work. So working faster doesn't actually make you more productive in that the speed at which you work doesn't increase your actual output. And this is because we can't think of ourselves like just a factory where we just speed up the machine and it just works. So like a car where we just accelerate more and we're just, we're going faster. And there's a number of reasons for that that I've realized over the years. So that's the first myth, is that speed equals increase in output. And I'm going to get to the second one soon. But the first thing is that the reason it doesn't actually work is because the output is different to just like a car going faster. The output actually has to be of a certain level of quality for it to be meaningful. For example, just because you're studying faster doesn't actually mean that you're getting more meaningful output. You could just be flicking through lots of pages. And at the end of the day, you didn't achieve any real learning. And therefore you didn't actually output anything. All you did is kind of do this motion that looks like it would have outputed something, but the quality of it reduces. So the idea is that you don't actually want to compromise on quality pretty much at all, because most of the things that are important for us, we actually need it to be of a pretty high quality. So we really don't want to compromise on quality. But as we go faster, increasing our speed also increases our error rate. Now, the other thing is that most of the time, what I realized, we're not actually holding back on our speed anyway. We're normally sitting at around 80 to 90% of how fast we could actually do the task. And I think most people have an internal sense for their error rate. And they realize that going any faster would probably start impacting it. And most of the time, we're not deliberately going slower than we need to. And if we are going slower, it's at a realm of being kind of comfortable with it, knowing that we're not gonna compromise on our error rate. So what that means is that we're not usually that speed limited. And if we are, we're only usually speed limited by maybe 5 or 10% of our maximum total high quality speed. Which means that to increase our speed, let's say that we're at 80% and at 85%, we start making a lot more errors. So 85% is the maximum at which we would want to go through. Any higher and we increase our chance of errors, we don't wanna increase our chance of errors, so we don't actually want to increase past that. So let's say that we go from 80 to 85%. Okay, we have only actually increased our total output by 5% here. But let's say between 85% and 90%, our error rate increases by 10%. Now 10% is not really that high of an, of error. So let's say that you don't make any more errors between 80 to 85%, and you make 10% more errors between 85 and 90%. That means going from 80% of our max speed of doing a task, which this might feel pretty comfortable, the amount of energy and the focus that we need is not super high, whereas here, this might be borderline stressful, and often here, we're gonna start feeling like we're rushed, okay, this rushed feeling. We're really trying to get through stuff as quickly as possible, and it's rushing us. Well, the error rate here has gone up by plus 10%. And we've increased our speed by 10%. So in this case, you might think, well, then it wasn't really worth it because now we're just more stressed and we're more rushed. And long-term, that might actually do more harm. But here's why it actually still doesn't make sense because increasing our error rate by 10% does not require the same 10% of time to fix it. When you make an error, it usually takes more time to fix an error than the time it would have taken to do it properly in the first place. So for example, if you studied something and you mislearned it the first time, well then the consequences of that are actually quite numerous. So you study something and you study it wrong. So what are the consequences of studying it wrong? The first thing is that you now need to relearn it. But in order to relearn it, you need to recap on what you know around that topic. 'Cause you can't just point in onto that and straight away learn it. There's some time required to kind of remind yourself what that topic is about and kind of rebuild that cache, okay, and get back into that flow. So there's additional time required there. Not only that, you actually have to realize that you were wrong. So you have to identify the errors in the first place. Not only that, but it also increases your chance of misunderstanding something else. Because you've got something that you studied the wrong way and you might think it's this way, therefore the next thing you learned might actually have been misunderstood as well because you misunderstood something that was more basic than that or more foundational. It's kind of like if you thought one plus one equals three, then you might think that one plus one plus two equals five instead of four because you misunderstood that one plus one doesn't equal three. So it increases your chances of further misunderstanding. And this, obviously, the consequence of misunderstanding things outside of that, you have to relearn that and you have to identify that as well. So there's multiple areas in which a single error actually increases your time. It's not a one-to-one ratio. And in my just personal experience, and I'm not aware of any research that's actually done on this when it comes to something like studying. There certainly are when it comes to businesses and factory lines and things like that. But from my general experience, when you make one error, that error scales to at least four times the amount of time that it would have taken if you were just doing it right. Which means that actually increasing our error rate by 10% increases the amount of time that we'd need to spend by 40%. So going 10% faster when you need to spend 40% more time to fix the errors that you've made does not make sense. In order for us to be able to speed up and for it to be worth it, we need to at least speed up by around 40% so that we are actually compensating for the errors that we make. And because of the fact that most of the time we're not actually working that slowly. It's not really possible to go up by 40% without significantly impacting our error rate. So this is something that I, as you can kind of imagine, you don't really see this in books or anything very often. It's something that I realized over years of trying to go faster and then being quite confused initially, honestly, about why it was that I wasn't actually getting more stuff done. And it didn't seem like maybe I get more stuff done in one day, but when I looked at it across sort of weeks to months, I thought, you know what, there's actually no change. But the difference is that now I was more stressed because I'm always rushed. I was finding it hard to focus because I was more tired because of all of the stress. So that's one myth. It's that speed does not actually equate to output. Speed increases your error rate and that actually reduces your output that's meaningful and in order to speed up enough to overcompensate for that we need to get a lot faster which is not usually possible to do for most tasks. Now there is a caveat to this, an exception. (speaking in foreign language) - Which is that a lot of the time when we're studying, our studying technique is actually so poor that it's possible to be not 40%, but maybe 400% faster in studying. So that's an exception. However, it is and it's not because the speed that I'm talking about here is more about how fast we're trying to push things in our mind. I'm not talking about... (indistinct) Talking about the basic process through which we use. It's about the sense of rushing something or trying to go fast. And that usually does not work out. So even if you were to use a studying technique that's highly efficient, like the bear hunter system, trying to do the bear hunter system really fast and rushing it would actually produce a poorer result than just doing it at a comfortable yet relatively fast pace. which is what you probably will veer towards naturally anyway. So when we're comparing the same process with each other versus doing it at a rate that we're comfortable with, where we're able to focus well and produce high quality work, versus doing the same process at a rate that we feel like we're rushing and we're trying to do it faster, it's actually better not to do that if we want to have a higher overall output, which is very counterintuitive unless you really think about it, which is probably why I didn't think about it for many years. Obviously, if you change the process, for example, to using a more efficient study technique, then that comparison doesn't hold up. So it's within the same process. We want to be at a calm, confident, brisk pace that's keeping us focused rather than trying to rush it. So that's the first myth. The second myth is the idea that you become more productive when you hustle more. This is definitely the wrong mentality to have. And anyone that's heard me talk about this on social media or through webinars, you know that the way that I view hustle is not in a hugely favorable light. You do need to try hard, but most of the time we're so obsessed with trying hard, we don't stop to think about what we're doing is actually the right way of trying hard. And it's very easy to get locked into this tunnel vision of just trying hard and trying hard and trying hard. (soft music) And we're so far down the tunnel that we don't even realize that we've wasted all of this time from doing the wrong thing. And it seems obvious, you know, obviously you need to do the right thing, not just work hard. But in reality, most people are so obsessed and consumed by working hard that they don't give themselves the mental freedom and time and space to actually sit back and evaluate whether the process they're using is actually effective. So, the reason why increasing your level of hustle does not make you more productive is because productive depends on what your goal is. So, when I say productive, going to the park, having a picnic, spending time with your family, spending time with your friends, watching Netflix, these things can all be productive. As long as it takes you towards your goal or your goals. So your goals depend on you. Everyone's got different goals. If your goal is to have a very easy, relaxed lifestyle, where you're not worrying about too many things, and that's your goal, that's what's gonna make you the most happy, then doing all of these things is going to be productive because it gets you towards that goal. If your goal is to be academically in that top 1%, and again, I just screwed up the spelling of academically completely, but anyway, academic 1%, then these things are sometimes not going to be productive. If you need to really take a break, maybe, you've been studying really, really hard, and you feel like in order to maintain your mental health, which is so, so important to maintain your emotional state because that obviously affects your focus and your concentration. It even affects your raw ability to learn. It might affect your sleep. So maintaining this is paramount. You never compromise it for anything. So if you're studying so hard that you're compromising on this, then yes, this stuff becomes productive for this goal. Whereas if you're already well rested and what you need to do is actually just study, then this same stuff would not be productive. Okay? So the idea is that productive means that it takes us towards our goal. Any activity or task that gets us closer to our goal, whatever that may be, even if it's just to be easygoing and relaxed, that can be considered productive. Which means that just hustling doesn't necessarily mean that we are progressing towards our goal. Because this person here, who wants to get to this goal here, is hustling the entire time. And the analogy that I often give, remember, is that fly who is trying to get outside and they're buzzing around and there's a window that they're trying to get through, and you open the window for them. You decide to be nice and open the window for them so they can fly outside. Yet they continually just repeatedly smash themselves against this window until eventually they just die. Okay, so this fly is hustling to get outside, but it's not productive. This person is hustling the entire time, but it doesn't mean that it's productive. And that's the thing. When we are hustling too hard, the opportunity cost here is that we are reducing opportunity to reflect. We are increasing our tunnel vision and we don't give ourselves a space that we need to make sure that what we're doing is actually aligned in the direction that we want to be going and if it was aligned we maybe wouldn't need to actually hustle as hard and this is especially true given that our situation is always changing. So for example one day we might be feeling rested and the most productive thing for us to do to reach this goal is to study really hard and study a lot. The next week we might be feeling like we're more tired in which case we need to actually prioritize doing more of this relaxation in order for us to reach this goal and it actually changes because we are constantly changing right our motivation our energy our mood our very goals even in fact are always changing and so we need to know what is actually going to allow us to achieve our goal on a weekly or daily basis, knowing that on one day, the best thing to do might be to study. Whereas on the next day, the best thing to do might be to take a break. So having a constant calibration in terms of saying, okay, for me to be productive, I need to have a clear understanding of what my goals are. And therefore I need to understand what are all the factors that are required for me to get there. and setting clear priorities means that when we put effort in to the right priorities, we actually get the result that we want. If we don't spend the time to really think about our priorities, then we may end up spending effort completely the wrong way that doesn't get us where we want to go, and it takes more effort just to redirect ourselves. So these are two of the common myths that I see students making. A lot, especially students that are very into the whole self-development mentality, that are very all about the hustle, all about the motivation. And I was definitely one of those people. I really took that to the extreme, to be honest. And it doesn't really get you very far, and it's extremely tiring. Life does not become very fun. What makes a fun, enjoyable, productive life is when you know why you're working towards what you're working towards, the goal is well-examined, and you know how to get there with good priorities, and you put in the effort and you get the result. It's not fun when you put in effort and it's not getting you the result. It's not fun when you put in effort and over time you realize that you're getting further and further from your goal. That's not fun, that's not meaningful, and that's not productive. So these are the two myths. Don't go fast and don't focus on hustle. Put in the effort and the right priorities and put in the right amount of speed for the right process.