Come in. Welcome. Welcome to Basecamp. And by the fact that you're here, you have gone through that hard slog of learning all those new techniques and skills, changing the way that you learn from the ground up, it can't have been easy, I can imagine. And the fact that you got to base camp means that you've gone through the most challenging part, the part that most people would have already given up at. And when you found it difficult and you decided to persevere and keep pushing through and keep practicing diligently, that means that you've got what it takes to reach the summit and achieve the results that you set out to achieve. Now, remember what I said before. If we ascend too quickly, we're gonna enter into that death zone and we're gonna fall off the edge of the cliff. We're not gonna have acclimated to the current altitude that you're at. Look back, have a look at your roadmap and look at how far you've come, all the things that you've checked off, all the competencies that you've built, all the skills that you've developed. These things are all relatively new. I mean, think about it. You've been studying a certain way for maybe over 10 years of your life, and now suddenly you're learning a completely new way, learning on its head. We need some time to just adjust to this and get used to it. We need to get used to the techniques, we need to get used to the mindsets, we need to get used to the approaches, and then we can start adding on other techniques after that. So we're gonna be spending a little bit of time here at base camp, just getting used to it and getting comfortable and confident before we head up. And it's important that we settle here for a bit so we can really get the most out of the skills and not ascend so quickly that it all just ends up falling apart, ending in demotivation, getting more stressed out and wondering why you wasted your time. Staying here at base camp is gonna help you prevent that. So we're going to look at how you can make sure that you carry on your BHS practice moving forward, how you can continue to schedule it in. We'll look at different ways that you can apply the BHS into your school term with multiple different variations based on common types of schedules and common kinds of issues, and exactly how you should feel at each stage of that. At Base Camp, we're loaded with resources. So go through them, spend some time to think about it, spend a few weeks applying it, really practicing it while working through the different modules to learn a little bit more in terms of the slightly more advanced skills and perspectives that we're building on from all the stuff that we've covered before. And then I'll teach you about the learning techniques, the exam preparation techniques, and what it takes to get to the summit. But for now, make yourself some tea, Take a nice deserved break, settle in, and enjoy what Basecamp has got to offer you. Teşekkür ederim.